10 April 2014

Attendees: Jane, Keith, Rebecca

Agenda:
-        General thoughts/impressions from RDA-3

Metadata meetings went well (MIG, MSDWG, MIG with WG/IG, Metadata in Context)
Jane:  discussions with people were good - also went to the Workflow meeting; people seemed to have a better idea of what is happening with RDA

-        Priorities

Gathering of use cases - Rebecca will connect with Brigitte early next week on the template
jane find place on web foum...
o   Gathering use cases (steps, deadlines)
o   Interns (DataONE, RDA)
Kate for DataONE, new call for RDA
o   Other
Sean's master's paper, jane send to everyone, and then post on Web
o   Web presence update (must do!!)
- r there notes from our intern?  
- Alex posted notes already
- update w/news about template coming?
- highlight interns
- post Sean's master's paper
- highlight reports from Metadata IG, and slides
- our slides, make sure posted
- summary notes.. from Rebecca, summary slide.
- RDA-4
- link Context WG
- provenance group

REbecca, send names of poeple who attended.
Group thank yous..
- we could highlight the maste'rs papers and additons to DCC, and thank everyone who partiipated... intiial survey.

- thank you in a bit w/the use cases/template.. aim for this 3 to 4 weeks.
-        RDA – metadata permeation !
o   Keith … latest effort
Disicussion
- make RDA-4 work, everyone push for no overlap, we are askign for this, support it.
- consider having a meeting w/metadata related WG + IG chairs sometimes in next 2 months
- if we want technical outcomes, work, then we need to refine what it is we want, and consider if a smaller gathering/workshop would be something to do @ RDA-4.
o   Metadata IG, what/can should MSDWG be going
-        Other
o   Related projects
o   other
next call, in person or online.. could we have a gathering to dig and explore application area.
COOPUS?  EGU, Austria/Vienna, AGU meets in Dec. San Fran.  ESIP?  July... 
Reach out to come of these groups and see where there is interest.
Look at who-has contributed other application groups, look ..
Attendees: Jane, Keith, Rebecca
Regrets: Alex (feel better soon!)


DRAFT agenda
-        Let’s take the first 20 minutes to look at our Gantt chart and priorities (attached is more detailed Gantt chart, drawing from our endorsed case statement of July 29, 2013)
jane add more details gantt chart to wiki
link enviornmental scans

-        Where are the results of the environmental scan?
   *          Alex's scoping study
   *          Angela's poster and is working on a paper
         
-        What are the outcomes of the survey so far?
slide talk from Bill's talk
Christina Perez paper, jane check on SILS/unc repository, confirm w/Cristina we'd like to link her paper.
-        Will we be providing feedback to those who did respond to the survey?
keith - anything that gets more entries
History folks were confused and didn't know how to contribute
How to get access
Follow-up with Alex on why some of these standards are not showing...
Rebecca's CS student, review technology for wikis, Ask Raphael 
From Keith's email:(was hoping that the MSDWG work would provide access to all standards (including those in DCC)
1.     The survey is hopelessly inadequate at present: (a) some entries are not recorded in the attached pdf (I put in one on CERF for example) but even the common standards (DC, DCAT,eGMS, CKAN, INSPIRE, MARC, DDI, SDMX) are missing let along the many in space science, bioscience, medicine, environment, Chemistry, geoscience (aside from GEOSS);

-        What's the status of the wiki?
 
-        Keith/Alex update on use cases (Keith's email from Jan 16)
Need to find a way to bring together this material, and also the work that Scott, colleague and Karrie wiki.  
Put up Keith's use case sent.
-        Rebecca update DataONE summer intern program
The project descriptions will be going up on the DataONE website this week so that students can begin applying
Decision will be made in March/April timeframe

-        Anything significant Jane should know for Munich
Jane will pull together some slides (15-20min)

-        Have Sean join us @ 10:30 or so
Everyone take time to review, and give feedback to Sean
Continued thinking/question:  Would Sean's work help us to develop a more specific RFP.  Just keep looking 

Sean would like comment about just to organizational layout, realitionships
He can pull in a bigger sample from DCC.
Could easily publish this in another forms... 
We need to think about pros and potential cons of Github vs. wiki
Kieth comments, links from standard to custodians, rights, etc. publications.  We should bring this up with Alex too, and about the utility of this info. in DCC too.
Another entity - relates to guy from Wales.
Sean - document
-        New item: Email list address changes, etc. (see my note at the end of this list)
-        Updating CASE statement to remove MASDIR?**
Rebecca - fix our files in RDA, case statement easy to find.  In the depo, make links.
-        Signing folks’ names on emails
-        Other

