Notes from 2010-08-26

Pre-workshop discussion for FedSec workshop schedueld for Sep 8-9, 2010

1. Actions from last discussion

- (Dave) check with Rebecca on total attendees
- (Dave) Check with John Kunze on availability
- (Dave) Engage CCIT to capture addtional requirements: 
  https://trac.dataone.org/report/554
- (Mark) Send out invitations with travel logistics
- (Matt) Add contact and technology to MN list
- (Randy) Check on Ken's availability - Ken will be comming
- (Randy & Jim) Preworkshop questionaire 
- (Bruce) Compile existing requirements documents, e.g. ESDIS
- (Dave) Look back through CCIT notes and compile previous discussion items on security (ABQ VDC 2009, May?)
  - https://repository.dataone.org/documents/Projects/VDC/docs/20090602_04_ABQ_Meeting/20090604MeetingReport.pdf (page 7)
- (Mark) Clean up agenda (for invitations)


2. Questionnaire
Source available at:

Entry at:  
https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Au-oThVeU4I-dFZYelJNbFNPek5IMWg2SDBIZXZhNmc&hl=en&authkey=CI6p9dcK#gid=0

The link for completing the survey:
http://workshops.cilogon.org/d1

- D: data granularity - single blob or mor granular / record level
- is data / metadata treated differently (Authz)
- data sharing policies
- Offline authentication / editing

- Who to distribute the list?
  - MN managers
    - Large variability in the MN policies and infrastructure/admin support
  - Many metacat instances, but TEAM is a good example of someone else

  - ITK app developers / users


- data policies in place at various institutions

  LTER: http://www.lternet.edu/data/netpolicy.html
  NCEAS: http://www.nceas.ucsb.edu/datapolicy
  ORNL: (Governed by the NASA EOS data policy) abstracted at
    http://www.ciesin.columbia.edu/docs/005-089/005-089art8.html
    and also on page 19 in 
    http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/ftp_docs/data_products_1.pdf and in
    http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/for_scientists/data_products/refbook2006.php 
  PISCO: http://piscoweb.org/data/data-sharing-policy
  TEAM: http://www.teamnetwork.org/en/data/policy
    

- Send out Monday, responses by Thursday


3. Agenda and supporting documentation

MN list at: https://repository.dataone.org/documents/Projects/cicore/operations/membernodes.csv
(rendered at http://mule1.dataone.org/OperationDocs/membernodes.html)


Outcomes:
   * Overview of existing systems at MNs, CNs, other fedsec projects
   * (critical) short term technology recommendations, over next year, that we can implement
   * requirements discussion and vetting to get general consensus
   * strategy for long-term
   * Any recommendations for research or work NSF and/or other agencies should fund to address unmet needs.

Topics
   * Problem statement  (Dave)
     * What aspects of security need to be considered?
     * Include some of the expected outcomes 

   * The security landscape 
     - questionaire response - Randy & Jim
     - what's going on in the open fedsec world (e.g. google, openid, oauth, pam, ldap, ...) Randy & Jim
     - Some examples of federated systems, with their pros and cons
     - Campus level overview (Ken)

   * Generate a matrix of specific requirements (Dave, Matt)
      -- Provider nodes
      -- Consumer applications

   * Align requirements matrix with technologies
   
   * Short list technologies
   
   * Outline critical features and prioritize implementation for next couple of years
   * Discuss phased implementation strategy


(provide requirements before meeting for review)
Wednesday
Morning (task - record requirements, capabilities during the session)
- Problem statement (Dave)
  - DataONE overview
  - Usecases (general) (Matt)
- Security landscape (Randy, Jim)
  - Federa
  - Campus level perspective as well (Ken)
- Member node perspectives (10 mins each: current authz + authn, desired future)
  - Metacat (Matt)
  - Dryad (John Auman)
  - DAAC (Giri?)
  - CUAHSI (Jeff)
  - CDL perspective? (Perhaps John)
  - UNM library perspective (Dale)
  - DC (Tim)
  - EOSDIS Kevin Murphy?
- Questionnaire responses (Jim, Randy)

Afternoon
- (Dave) formalize and prioritize requirements generated before meeting and captured during the morning session.
- (Need to document the scenarios, use cases)  Much of this might be available in the arch docs
  - e.g. access data from a web portal vs a desktop tool like R
  - provders: closed contribution systems vs completely open
  - perhaps 6 or so generic scenarios
  
- (Randy) Document a set of key capabilities and try and match with technology / systems available
  - Technology options
  - need to identify sort / long term aspects of capabilities + technology options


Thursday
Morning
- (Dave, Randy) develop specific recommendations for short and long term implementations
   -- Identity provision
   -- Authentication
   -- Authorization
   -- Service APIs for above three
   -- Accounting / logging interaction

Afternoon
- (Matt) Discuss phased implementation strategy 
  - migration of existing systems - what is the path for a MN to adopt the recommended technology?
- (Dave) Closeout (formalize documents, assign tasks / actions) / summary


4. Summary of invitations and attendees
5. Other


New Actions 2010-08-26

- Questionnaire out (Randy, Jim)
  - Draft for comment by CCIT tomorrow (2010-08-27)
  - Send out survey on Monday (2010-08-30)
  - Responses by Thursady COB (2010-09-02)
- Agenda fleshed out (Dave)
- Is Kevin Murphy attending? (Mark)
- Two projectors + screens (Mark)
- Get requirements in document form (Dave)
- Capture a few (6 or so) scenarios / high level use cases (Matt)
- Compile a list of "security technologies / systems" that may be relevant and characterize major functionality provided (e.g. authentication, authorization, trusted identity transfer, ...)
- Clarify expected implementation timeline (Dave)


============================================

Notes From 2010-08-11

The four main topics for this call are listed below along with some bullets
(for guidance only)

1. Meeting logistics

   * Preparations of the facilities
      - Meeting room
        - 2 meeting rooms available
      - Equipment 
        - check with facilities
      - Communications
      - Food
        - Check with Bob S. about local restaurants
      - Local transportation
        - block of rooms at Marriot

  * Travel logistics notification for attendees
    - need to send invite and logistics info

2. Attendees


   * Should ideally have representation from operators of repositories
     targeted for participation in DataONE (Member Nodes)

   * Also need input from experts in the field to provide guidance for
     technology and implementation decisions

   * Sufficient CCIT attendance to ensure technical participation

* Randy Butler
* Jim Basney
* Jon Auman (Ryan Scherle proxy)
* John Cobb
* Jeff Horsbourgh
* Matt Jones
* John Kunze
* Mark Servilla
* Dave Vieglais
* Bruce Wilson (cannot attend) or Giri Palanisamy
* Ken Klingenstein
* NASA EOSDIS Rep (Kevin Murphy)?
* Tim DiLauro
* Mark Evans
* Eve Maler (?)
* Tina Heath (ORNL cybersecurity lead, familiar with many FIPS and FISMA issues; pronounced Ti-na (long i) )
* Ed Bishop (ORNL)
* David Kennedy (Data Conservancy)
* Dale Hendrickson (UNM Libraries)

- pre-workshop questionaire 
Tianmu Zhang (UTK grad student supported on DataONE) can assist with processing the questionaire and collating the results, as well as pre- and post-meeting tasks.  Attending the meeting itself is a problem, due to missing classes.  But he could use remote participation technology for some parts of the meeting, if useful.  

Here are the member nodes in consideration:
http://dev-testing.dataone.org:8080/hudson/job/DataONE-Operations-Manual/javadoc/membernodes.html

3. Outline of the workshop agenda
FedSec Requirements list:
  https://trac.dataone.org/report/554

Outcomes:
   * Overview of existing systems at MNs, CNs, other fedsec projects
   * (critical) short term technology recommendations, over next year, that we can implement
   * requirements discussion and vetting to get general consensus
   * strategy for long-term
   * Any recommendations for research or work NSF and/or other agencies should fund to address unmet needs.

Topics
   * Problem statement  (Dave)
     * What aspects of security need to be considered?
     * Include some of the expected outcomes 

   * The security landscape 
     - questionaire response - Randy & Jim
     - what's going on in the open fedsec world (e.g. google, openid, oauth, pam, ldap, ...) Randy & Jim
     - Some examples of federated systems, with their pros and cons
     - Campus level overview (Ken)

   * Generate a matrix of specific requirements (Dave, Matt)
      -- Provider nodes
      -- Consumer applications

   * Align requirements matrix with technologies
   
   * Short list technologies
   
   * Outline critical features and prioritize implementation for next couple of years
   * Discuss phased implementation strategy

4. Formalize the working group and outline ongoing activities

---
Actions:
- (Dave) check with Rebecca on total attendees
- (Dave) Check with John Kunze on availability
- (Dave) Engage CCIT to capture addtional requirements
- (Mark) Send out invitations with travel logistics
- (Matt) Add contact and technology to MN list
- (Randy) Check on Ken's availability
- (Randy & Jim) Preworkshop questionaire
- (Bruce) Compile existing requirements documents, e.g. ESDIS
- (Dave) Look back through CCIT notes and compile previous discussion items on security (ABQ VDC 2009, May?)
- (Mark) Clean up agenda


