Attendees: Rebecca Koskela, Amber Budden, Bob Cook, Suzie Allard, Bill Michener,John Cobb, Trisha Cruse, Todd Vision, Matt Jones, Dave Vieglais, Steve Kelling,Bruce Wilson,


Regrets: Viv Hutchison, Carol Tenopir


http://epad.dataone.org/20101119-LT-VTC
 

 Agenda for 2010-11-19
 
 Discussions about permissions on LT folders; DUG Planning folder probably needs to be moved out of the LT folder; Dave will verify that DataONE Team members can't read from
 LT folders

     1. DataONE Users Group - review materials for attendees
     https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/committees/management-team/meetings/planning-for-dug
     
I. Member Node Documents
 
Item: Process to add member node (now a ppt) (Amber or Rebecca)
(S&G Summary slides - ppt)
Status: turn ppt slide into a text document, but add an illustration if necessary
 Step by step guide for adding a member node
 
Item: 2-page on the document on Member nodes – Mike Frame
Status: in process – work with Allison, Rama, and Lisa Zolly to complete. Needs to have DataONE template.
 Intent: high level description of MN, benefits of being a MN - elevator speech on MN
 
Item: Summary description – slide (Bill)
Status: complete, but needs to have DataONE template
 First slide in deck - process to establish a MN - combine with Alison's?
 
Item: DataONE Member Node Registration – part of the application package (Bob) - Needs review by CI
Status: complete, but needs to have DataONE template.
 changes will be needed - APIs will be prescribed by DataONE; 
 larger context of what data the potential MN will provide
 CI: series of sw stacks that are available or libraries - MN would adapt these
 MNs would come and go over time
 Document may need to evolve over time as infrastructure evolves over time
 
 alternatives for word "Registration" - Survey?
 
 
Item: Sample registration (Bob) 
Status: complete, but needs to have DataONE template.
Bob has comments from Bruce that he wants to incorporate
 
 Need example from KNB - Matt (responses will be broad)
 
Item: Service Guidelines (Mike and Trisha)-Needs review by CI
Status: in process, but needs to have DataONE template.
 Background: SLA might be a barrier so a guideline showing roles & responsibilities of both sides - Needs a look by CCIT and doesn't overlap improperly with other documents
 Means of MN to communicate back to DataONE
 Who can be a MN paragraph - individual invesigators can't become a MN
 Hot topic at Tamaya: concern about individual researchers being able to be a MN
 Remove statement for now
 
 Service Availability - service windows - CNs should be able to cover others maintenance windows - Important for CCIT to review this and comment
 
 Mailing lists and feeds for network are important but not ready to commit to a specific model
 Label document as DRAFT
 
 Reporting:  some designed into s/w stack but it is not in the s/w stack right now but should be there at first public release
 
 Some of the wording in this document is too strong - more flexible statements
 Distinguish between endpoint and the evolving public versions
 
 Who's responsible for training?
 Breakout session devoted to these guidelines - mechanism to recruit MN - MNs could help each other
 In terms of governance, tightrope to walk between agreement but not committing DataONE to too much
 For training, start with mailing list to provide support, and list what might be there in the future
 
 Dave & Matt work on softening some of the language and clarify where necessary
 
 What is intended final product?  Perhaps a folder with all the documents numbered
 Review in early December
 
Item: Strategic criteria for standing up a member node 
Status: complete, but needs to be woven into the 2-pager
 
 Document worked on in Oakland at last S&G WG meeting - blend into 
 2-pager
 Now in folder
 Says 5 criteria but only 4 are listed - Size just needs a bullet
 Internal criteria for how we help MN come on-line not meant to be restrictive
 Question of resources: would also illustrate to EAB & community that we are thoughtful in building out the DataONE community
 Prioritizing our investments in MN but not to be used in a restrictive sense
 EAB had asked about plans to build out member nodes - this document was in response to that 
 Change language to reflect Matt & John's comments about the resource impact on DataONE
 
 
 
 
 Bill working on summary of DataONE that may serve as preview - will take the
 place of the existing 1-pager
 
Item: Member node technical documentation … Bob, Mike, and Dave
May need input from CCIT (??)
Status: not yet started
 General overview; includes extracts from API documentation
 
II. DataONE Users Group
Item: Charter (Amber) 
Status: Clean-up and send to leadership team. (needs to have DataONE template.)
 Challenge: elect a chair and voting requirements
 Chair in place:
 Good for review
 Good for planning next meeting
 1st official meeting in 2012 
 Size is open - organization like ESIP that starts out small and grows through time
 John's suggestion: chair for 3-6 month term as "startup" chair
 Would probably need to be 13-month
 Committee to work on by-laws
 
Item: Agenda  (Rebecca)
Status: complete 

      2.  Redmine Issue Tracking (Vieglais)

      3.  NEES & DataONE(Cobb)
           Upsides:

            A) To the extent that DataONE can be of service to another large NSF  project with a 
                 large CI component, it can only help to emphasize the  importance of DataONE as 
                 a component of Data CI both directly for  environmental and ecological science and
                as an exemplar for data focused  CI NSF-wide
            B) Possible re-inforcing strategies on providing data management plan services for 
                 NSF proposals.
            C) collaboration and exchange on information, strategy, and technology.

        Action Items:
            1) DataONE LT discussion on strategy (really more like a fuller briefing) on a LT call in
                the near future
            2) Discussion on how to engage NEES



  4.  Round the room (All)
  
  Cobb:
A:
  Discussion with storage vendors at SC'10
      Dell -tech refresh 3100->3200. Dell has a Lustre appliance preconfigured and plug and play. Native IBbut 10GbE option
      Raid Inc
      Next-IO
      SuperMicro
      PanasasCirraStor
      Aristia: 10GbE switch at ~$300/port cost on switch side!!!
      Missed speaking to Panassas and DDN
      
      next step: ask for an informational quote based on HW specs discussed at AHM.

B:
Thinking about preparing MOU for TG mtg in Dec. (at the same time as DUG)

C: 
wokring on next Allocations req. for Eva and other TG relate allocations. Working with CLO folks on needs, but also can add other DataONE needs into htat proposal. If there are other needs, let me know and I'll try to roll them in.
=================
[10:58 AM] Bob joined.
[10:59 AM] Trisha Cruse joined.
[10:59 AM] Rebecca: http://epad.dataone.org/20101119-LT-VTC
[11:04 AM] John W. Cobb left.
[11:04 AM] Dave Vieglais joined.
[11:04 AM] Matt Jones joined.
[11:04 AM] Todd Vision joined.
[11:05 AM] Dave:  partially
[11:06 AM] Rebecca: I emailed all the documents to Bob
[11:07 AM] John W. Cobb joined.
[11:07 AM] Bob Cook:  emailed to Bob S.?
[11:07 AM] John:  Sorry folks, I may be bouncing a bit - hotel network for me :<
[11:07 AM] Rebecca: Yes - Bob S.
[11:09 AM] Steve joined.
[11:10 AM] Bruce Wilson joined.
[11:13 AM] Suzie:  Carol is flying back from Germany
[11:13 AM] Dave:  testing a random selection of files seems to indicate that file permissions are correct on the leadership team folder and its children
[11:15 AM] John W. Cobb left.
[11:15 AM] Bob Cook:  I haven't reviewed the DUG MN 2-pager
[11:16 AM] John W. Cobb joined.
[11:16 AM] John:  I'm back. sorry.
[11:23 AM] John:  The unique thing about a security MOU is that DataONE will have to do some sort of audit (or really assessment) to make sure the implementation is meeting the expectations
[11:28 AM] John W. Cobb left.
[11:28 AM] John W. Cobb joined.
[11:29 AM] John:  I'm back again. I'm averaging 30 kbs <ugh>
[11:32 AM] Bruce:  @John-I thought you were at a computing conference  
[11:35 AM] Steve:  Sorry, but I have to go.
[11:35 AM] Steve left.
[11:36 AM] John W. Cobb left.
[11:36 AM] John W. Cobb joined.
[11:39 AM] Trisha:  that is what i heard too  
[11:41 AM] John:  It sounds to me like we need to subscribe Trish to receive e-mail updates for ALL changes in repo :>
[11:43 AM] Matt:  is the strategic doc in the folder?
[11:48 AM] Suzie:  I think the data citation white paper will be done -- final draft wil lbe going out for review at the end of this weekend.  Would you want that in the notebook?
[11:49 AM] John:  It would be good if that white paper would also appear on the externally avaialble DataONE web-space
[11:50 AM] Bill:  agreed.
[11:50 AM] John:  I have already gotten several requests from non DataONE folks for DataMan plan examples and "best practices" papers for various things including data citation
[11:51 AM] John:  perhaps select a chair for a 3 month or 6 month term as a "startup" chair
[11:54 AM] Trisha:  Rebecca -- did we look at the criteria document and was it OK?
[11:56 AM] Todd:  Sorry, have to leave a few minutes early.  The strategic criteria look good to me.  Bye!
[11:56 AM] Todd Vision left.
[11:58 AM] John:  I agree with Dave. A fully capable independant member node should be welcomed.
[11:59 AM] John:  Our need is to prioritize the impacts on DataONE resrouces
[12:00 PM] John:  Maybe we are missing an unspoken criterion which is resrouce impact on dataONE
[12:03 PM] Trisha Cruse left.
[12:03 PM] Suzie:  works for me
[12:03 PM] Suzie:  bye happy t-day
[12:03 PM] John W. Cobb joined.
[12:04 PM] Bob left.
[12:04 PM] Suzie Allard left.
[12:04 PM] Bruce Wilson left.
[12:04 PM] Matt Jones left.

