Attendees: Rebecca Koskela, Bruce Wilson, Carol Tenopir, Dave Vieglais, Bob Cook,
Mike Frame, Viv Hutchison, John Kunze, Amber Budden, Suzie Allard,Bill Michener, Todd Vision, John Cobb


Regrets: Steve


http://epad.dataone.org/20110114-LT-VTC
 

  Agenda for 2011-01-14

1.  DataONE Member Node Service Guidelines (attachment) (Amber)
Edited by subgroup of DUG - this sent out for review and vote by DUG
members; if vote is positive then LT could still review and make changes if
necessary
DUG makes recommendations but does not determine policy; would be better
to have had the LT review it first
JK: voted yes on document but also good to hear that LT could make changes
May want to strengthen some of the data center practices/recommendations
Continuum from handshake to more legal terminology -  both camps involved
in the editing process; If approved today, will send to LT for their review and
comments


2.  Status of  DataONE NSF Review presentations (Rebecca,Amber,Dave,Bill)

Will printing out the handout version of the slides in about an hour for the EAB 
to comment on in their meeting Monday-Tuesday.

DataONE Project Overview (40 minutes – presentation, 0 minutes - Q&A)
Presenting: Bill 
Who should review: all
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/DataONE%20NSF_OVERVIEW_Michener_2011%20Feb_vs1-5.pptx/view
Slide 22 - PRC study Publishing Research - Carol will email correct citation
Make sure existing member nodes are represented in early context slides #13,#17
Slide 46 - USGS

Make sure updates to this section are replicated throughout

Cyberinfrastructure I: design, R&D, and implementation (60 minutes – presentation (45 slides))
This is Bruce's section and is uploaded
Cyberinfrastructure II: prototype demos and plans for years 3-5 (60 minutes for presentation; 60 minutes for Q&A)
Dave will upload a newer version of this section - is there & now has outline for section
(https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/20110222-DataONE-NSF-CYBERINFRASTRUCTURE-Vieglais_et_al.-vs1.4.pptx/view)
III
Core functionality (slide 6) - bit-level preservation (replication) Key Functionality from Requirements
not using LOCKSS infrastructure, just the concept

CI-III: will have one slide on preservation here

Presenting: Dave, Matt, and Bruce
Who should review: Dave, Matt, and Bruce
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/DataONE%20NSF_CYBERINFRASTRUCTURE_Vieglais%20et%20al._2011%20Feb_vs1.1_BEW-2.pptx
 

Community Engagement (40 minutes – presentation; 20 minutes Q&A)
Amber will put together slides for review (1-2 slides per WG) – 
Presenting: Amber, Steve presenting on EVA, and Carol
Who should review: Amber, Steve, Carol
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/CE-O_AllParts.pptx/view
 
 Background: Approach and DUG, Assessments, EVA, roundup of how meeting performance metrics
 Viv: when need workshop information? end of day if can't do it in next hour
 
 Bill: general feedback on CI and CE - density of material - each one hour presentation and
 existing slides may be hard to get through in one hour (CE is 40 minutes not 60)
 Challenge is to refine without losing the message
 Bruce: right at 19 minutes for his portion

Sustainability (40 minutes - presentation; 20 minutes - Q&A)
Bill and Trisha putting together slides with Bob Cook, Mike Frame, Steve Kelling, John Cobb
Presenting: Trisha, Bob, John 
Who should review: Trisha, Bob, John Cobb
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/DataONE%20Sustainability_vs2.1.pptx
 
#24 needs subtitle Sustainabilty and Governance stakeholder matrix
Would like feedback on technical sustainability - key point is the importance of user
acceptance & involvement for sustainability

JK: might reword some of the technical sustainability - will sink up with Trisha
Question for Dave and CI: slide #23 - phases of development
Phase 1 focus on data
Phase 2 focus on tools
Four phases in schedule diagram (in CI talk that includes performance metrics)
CI schedule shows 4 phases (of Federated Security) so need to be consistent across all slides

Mike:  Trisha, general comment - Slides 21 - 28 - It is basically building a Business plan.   I'm not sure you should spend so much time on these because they need to hear what are "WE" doing, not so much a "what is in a general business plan"...  See what I mean

Need to layout the plan for creating a business plan for NSF - will check to see if order
should be before or after WG

Mike:  So, there are DUG Slides in the CEO Presentation and in S&G.   Probably only need it in CEO talk in my opinion 
[11:34 AM] Mike:  For instance S&G Slide 36, CEO Slide 13-15 

Appendix at end of this section: this is where more detailed items could go in anticipation of 
questions

Challenges and Mitigation (20 minutes for presentation; 20 minutes for Q&A)
Bill putting together with Dave and Rebecca 
Presenting: Bill 
Who should review: all
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/DataONE%20challenges%20and%20mitigation_vs1.1.pptx/view
 
Qualify as major but there are others - use appendix here also
#6 NSF
WG model - add this 
#3 not as same level as others - WG could be folded into a broader #3

#4 - Need to have participation beyond MN, CN - may need to broaden this beyond
MN and CN

Get parallelism in bullet points

#6 - is this beyond DC
Broaden beyond DC to other DataNets
May drop #6 for the review - Carol's suggestion is to mention verbally but not put in
writing
Project Governance:
managing communications & include NSF as part of this umbrella 

Future Plans and DataONE Activities (20 minutes for presentation; 20 minutes for Q&A)
Rebecca putting together slides with Executive Team
Presenting: Rebecca, Amber, Dave 
Who should review: all
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/most-current-versions/DataONE%20FuturePlansandDataNet_vs1.0.pptx

Make clear year 2 activities for CI then years 3-5
Show integration of CI and CE rather than breaking them apart

DataNets in the broader landscape

Bruce: Regarding the service agreement -- there's a related effort in DataCite to look at characteristics of reliable/trusted repositories.  I'm representing DataONE on that.  


3.  Around the Room

Bruce: Made progress on the ORC equipment purchases today.  The rest of my DataONE time has been spent on the slides and prep for next week.  

Suzie: THe undergraduate environmental information course we designed started yesterday and earned a front page story in the campus news http://utdailybeacon.com/issues/2011/jan/13/  


ESA Special Session on "Creating effective data management plans for
ecological research" has been approved.

Marratech notes:


[11:09 AM] Bob Cook:  On the overview Ihave an update to slide 9...I'll send soon.
[11:10 AM] Todd:  Make sure existing member nodes are represented in the early context slides - yes
[11:10 AM] Todd:  like #13
[11:11 AM] Suzie:  looks okay on my PC
[11:11 AM] Todd:  And $17
[11:11 AM] Todd:  That's #17
[11:12 AM] Todd:  #19 - Dryad now has >1000 "data products" measured as individual data files
[11:15 AM] Todd:  #24 could use a subtitle
[11:16 AM] Todd:  sustainability and governance stakeholder martrix
[11:23 AM] Mike:  Amber - Not sure about slide 56 at the end - should it be included or maybe titled SUMMARY....
[11:24 AM] Suzie:  I am sending comments via email
[11:24 AM] aebudden:  Thx
[11:25 AM] aebudden:  @mike - Bill likes his ticklists! I'll check in with him  
[11:26 AM] Mike:  Maybe just call it then "In Summary".... It seems to be hanging out there 
[11:26 AM] aebudden:  Changed the title already.  Thanks.
[11:30 AM] Mike:  Trisha, general comment - Slides 21 - 28 - It is basically building a Business plan.   I'm not sure you should spend so much time on these because they need to hear what are "WE" doing, not so much a "what is in a general business plan"...  See what I mean
[11:32 AM] Trisha:  OK
[11:33 AM] Mike:  So, there are DUG Slides in the CEO Presentation and in S&G.   Probably only need it in CEO talk in my opinion 
[11:34 AM] Mike:  For instance S&G Slide 36, CEO Slide 13-15 
[11:37 AM] Mike:  How about Goverance - ie. WG lead, communcations
[11:39 AM] Mike:  exactly
[11:40 AM] Mike:  Working Group Participation could go under 4
[11:42 AM] Mike:  probably not...  
[11:43 AM] Bruce:  Even if we've had a bit of food poisoning  .
[11:44 AM] Mike:  call it Project Governance
[11:50 AM] Todd:  I need to take off early (sorry).  Bye all.  
[11:50 AM] Todd Vision left.
[11:56 AM] John:  Are we first name doppleganers?
[11:57 AM] John:  John C and John K are pretty close too!
[11:57 AM] Mike:  John K - we thought you were going to give money to DataONE to make it sustainable...  That's why your name was down there.....
[11:57 AM] John:   
[11:58 AM] Trisha:  good luck with the EAB.  The slides look great.
[11:58 AM] aebudden:  EAB slide locations: https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/committees/external-advisory-board/2011jan17_eab_meeting_santa_fe_nm/eab-slides


