Discussion concerning Oak Ridge Coorinating node infrastructure (ORC) and related co-located MN 

Action Items:
1: Les: Can we get an netowrk diagram of the stack at the other CN's?
2: Set up access for needed netids bwilso27,ndexter, <vieglais>, <cobb>, one other UCSB person, maybe Nick Brand>
3: Get everyone added to OIT event mailng list
4: routability and traffic shaping?
5: Watch out on partiiontin - divide by 8
6: Follow-up on a inceidnet respone playbook according to UTK patterns and needs. Work with netowrk services.


Attendees:
Larry Jennings
Aaron Lesch
Les Ault
John Cobb
Nick Dexter
Bruce Wilson
Robert McNeil


Discussion Items:

Agenda:
where are we?

is VMWare ready?
Les 2 of the three hosts are seeing storage.

Need acces for Wilson, Dexter, vieglais, Matt Jones, Nick Brand in UCSB, and cobb

1. Need to add 2-4 1 Gb ports for virtual machine management.
2. Based on research, Broadcom iSCSI does not support jumbo frames which would make it appear as a performance hit. If we would like to use jumbo frames, would need to stop using Broadcom.
   * for large transfers, this would be an issue

Hazel Cast envcryption issue: One JVM is dedicated entirely to synchronization. It accomplishes this using Java hazelcast synchronization. Becuase Hazelcast is all clear text, DataONE will tunnel all of this traffic thorugh a VPN at the coordinating nodes. (one coordinating nodes on each campus)

How to do the tunneL?

Robert suggests doing a point-to-point IPSEC based VPN using open swan under RedHat 5 (as opposed to a previous version in RH v.4 that didn't work well under windows)

Nick: we are using Ubuntu.

All CN's are Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

Prod, dev, staging, sandbox at each sites - 3 sites.

Cobb: need ops. documentation, call list, paging e-mails.

We usually handle through the helpdesk. It has a list of who owns the box.
perhaps use sharepoint?

Larry 

in addtion to the helpdesk function at  974-9900


You may want to cal the operations number directly
974-6028

Standard downtime Wed, midnight to Thu 2 AM (network may be down 10:00 PM to 12:00 PM)

Q: Wilson: where is the weekly order of battle

oit.utk.edu/TC you will see any upcoming major maintenance.

Also there will be a power downtime Dec 26 adn 27th

OIT events mailing list, will watch and forward important messages to developers.

Is there any need for physical access?
Stokely management center is open (staffed 24/7, During administrative closures, unstaffed.) Are there any people who should have physical access? 


Security.

routing: i2 first and then falls over to

netwokring contact: Bill White. 


Nick: We have a lot of storage?

Q: How will you access these nodes 

Each 140 Gb ofstorage  

then 1  ( or 16) TB mounted on /var

Q: Are you going ot nreed to access a single file-system larger than 2 TB?
A: Yes.

redirect to Les. There is an issue on how to access storage.

Les: When you create a VM you can mount a file system but only 2 TB in size.

If you add a NIC ino the VM that has access to the iSCSI option

Third you can concatenated mutiple 2 TB filesystem at the SW level

We have 130 TB per SAN.


ORiginally we had a 16 disk group and mounted LUN's to test funtionality.
It was organized as RAID6 as a 16 disk group with support of global hot-spares.

We now have 16 hot spares. but I wouldn't go less than 8 spares (4 per rack)

Raid 6 means double parity. So you need 3 disk failures in a 16 disk group to lose data.

Les: when you build a VM make sure you align the partions (divisible by 8). By defaults RH offests to 63.
Aaron:
(call Aaron and Les to reconfirm this)
when you do into fdsk, the offset needs to be set to something divisible by 8 (redhat chooses 63 which is sub-optimal)
This make a 2-4X I/O perfromance contrast.

When you add a virtual disk to a VM it askes for the SCSI ID. chose id 21 this is only way to get a different virtual controller. (which is on a second virtual network switch)
solution, boot live cd, make sure starting offset is divisble by 8, will try test installation using Ubuntu, see what default is.

We need to document (and make sure we have what we need) for NIDS, syslog aggregation.

follow-up with Bill and Jeremy.

Re-Meet  first full week in december

meet once a month.

