Attendees: Rebecca, Dave V, Matt Jones, Suzie, Bertram, Amber, Viv, Bruce, Bill, John Cobb,  Carol,Bob Cook, John Kunze,Trisha,Steve, Deborah

Regrets: Stephanie Hampton, Mike Frame, 

Call Information:

Conference Call Number: (866) 804-6831
This brings you to our conference call line - next press 1
The conference number is: 86914#

Will also use the epad: http://epad.dataone.org/20110819-LT-VTC if participants can get to it
 
Agenda for 2011-08-19
 
1.     NSF, DataNet, Data Conservancy, DataONE

NSF is taking cuts. OCI needed to make a decision on the DataNet awards. Possibilites were to cut DC and D1 by 50% and hinder both or cut one entirely.  
NSF is committed to the DataNet program.
DataONE will not be asked to incorporate any of the DC elements.
a.     Budget
DataONE will potentially get a $1.5M cut. There are 2 alternatives for this.(attachments were sent by email) Co-PIs on project are in favor of the alternative recommendation.

b.    T&C
Better backup documentation on invoices
Phillip Grosshans rewrite:

Funded Participants in DataONE
Subawardee shall provide the names, estimated FTEs, start dates and termination dates (as soon as known) for any personnel that are added or removed to the project.  Subawardee shall notify the Executive Director and the Director for Development and Operations in writing with the above information at least two weeks prior to the addition of new personnel and  within two weeks of the last date of employment of any personnel removed from the project.


Post-doc mentoring plan

Postdoctoral Mentoring
 
Primary mentoring of the post doc associate is the responsibility of the home institution. The postdoctoral associate is also a member of the DataONE network and will interact regularly with other DataONE postdoctoral associates and the DataONE team. 
 
Post doc networking activities will be initiated by the DataONE Director for Community Engagement and Outreach, the Executive Director, or the Director for Development and Operations. These regular networking interactions may evolve over time as appropriate—e.g., the post docs taking ownership of this activity; the ultimate goal is to create a collegial, well-informed, and engaged network of post docs that can serve as ambassadors for DataONE.  As examples, post docs may be called upon to organize routine informational webinars. Each post doc is expected to be an active participant in at least one Working Group. Each post doc shall prepare a quarterly written report of their activities and the report shall be submitted two weeks prior to the due dates for submission of DataONE quarterly reports to NSF. 

c.     Products and outcomes

2.     RCN DataNet Federation
Does NSF still envision a DataNet federation?
NSF asked Bill to write an RCN proposal to start the DataNet Federation. Topics would
include federated security, etc.  Please send ideas/subject matter on what you would like the vision of the DataNet Federation to Bill.  Won't get to it before the first of the year.

RCNs usually about $100K per year. Probably looking at one meeting a year and video conference and organizer person. If we can identify a set of  topics to be addressed, then
can avoid week-long workshops being added to people's already busy schedules.
INTEROP will also probably be included in this (and new 3 DataNet partners). Can also carveout some time for this at the upcoming Sustainability and Governance meeting in September. Bill has asked Karl Bennedict to provide the ESIP perspective.

3.     EarthCube engagement
Alan Blatecky wants DataONE to be part of EarthCube.
some info at http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2011/nsf11065/nsf11065.jsp  and http://www.nsf.gov/geo/earthcube/index.jsp
 
Topic: GEO/OCI Cyber Infrastructure Webinar
Date: Monday, August 22, 2011
Time: 4:00 pm, Eastern Daylight Time (New York, GMT-04:00) 
To register
1. Go to
https://mmancusa.webex.com/mmancusa/j.php?ED=170141257&RG=1&UID=1219598912&RT=MiMxMQ%3D%3D 
2. Register for the meeting.
3. Check for confirmation email with instructions on how to join
To view in other time zones or languages, please click the link:
https://mmancusa.webex.com/mmancusa/j.php?ED=170141257&RG=1&UID=1219598912&RT=MiMxMQ%3D%3D
For assistance
1. Go to https://mmancusa.webex.com/mmancusa/mc
2. On the left navigation bar, click "Support".
 
Charette, November 1-4, 2011: UNDER DEVELOPMENT (according to NSF website)

Winning ideas are funded through EAGAR (sp?) mechanism

      4.  BISON occurrence data workshop (agenda attached)
      Need a volunteer to attend this workshop and represent DataONE - Steve Kelling is attending this meeting and would represent D1. Kimberly Douglass will also be attending 
this meeting. Steve is giving presentation on species distribution model visualization.
      
---------------------------- Original Message ----------------------------
Subject: Occurrence Data Integration Workshop: Biodiversity Information
Serving Our Nation (BISON) to be held September 27 – 29, 2011
From:    "Gerald Guala" <gguala@usgs.gov>
Date:    Mon, August 15, 2011 1:44 pm
To:      gguala@usgs.gov
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Greetings, I am pleased to invite you, or your chosen representative, to
attend the Occurrence Data Integration Workshop: Biodiversity
Information Serving Our Nation (BISON) to be held September 27 &#8211;
29, 2011 at the United States Geological Survey (USGS) John W. Powell
Federal Building in Reston, VA. The USGS Biological Informatics Program
(BIP) is currently developing the BISON project as an integrated resource
for biological occurrence data from the United States. BISON will leverage
USGS assets as the full mirror and US Node for the Global Biodiversity
Information Facility (GBIF), as well as the accumulated human and
infrastructure resources of the Survey&#8217;s long-term investment in
research and data management and delivery in biological and geospatial
data. Specific goals for the meeting include:
1) Define requirements and a draft timeline for
development of BISON; 2) Detail specific
services that data providers and users want or need from BISON;
and 3) Prioritize datasets and resources for
inclusion into BISON. 4) Develop strategies to
link biological informatics systems A draft
agenda with further details is attached. A
preliminary version of BISON will be available for review at the workshop.
This meeting will serve to gather requirements for&nbsp;enhancements
to&nbsp;BISON, as well as provide a forum for increased collaboration and
coordination of informatics activities within the biodiversity community.
Invited speakers will demonstrate established and prototype applications
that will give food for thought on the future capabilities of BISON. BIP
staff will also present a prototype of the BISON system for review and
comment, and to provide context for the requirements discussion.
IMPORTANT: So that we may
finalize meeting arrangements, please RSVP to Julie Anthony
( janthony@usgs.gov ) and cc me, no later than Friday, September 2.
There is no registration fee for this
meeting. Unfortunately, funding to cover travel expenses is not available.
If you are unable to attend in person, but would like to attend a portion
of the meeting via WebEx and conference call, please let Julie know, and
we will provide call-in details. Please let us
know if you are unable to attend, and if possible, the reason for not
being able to do so (e.g, lack of funding, conflict in schedule, not
interested in workshop subject/BISON). We will be distributing future
BISON updates and requests for input to interested
invitees. We have reserved a block of rooms at
the Comfort Inn in Herndon, VA at a rate of $94/day. Please mention
"BISON" when you reserve your room (703-437-7555) before September
12 . A daily shuttle will be available to transport attendees between
the hotel and the meeting site. Additionally, free guest parking is
available at the Powell Building. To facilitate
side meetings, on the days before and after the workshop there will also
be a free shuttle available for attendees to travel from the Powell
building in Reston to Washington, D.C. ITIS staff will facilitate badges
for those wanting to visit the scientific collections at the Smithsonian
NMNH. Please let Julie know if you need additional details regarding
logistics or transportation. If you wish to use the shuttle, you must
include that in your RSVP so that we can arrange a pass for the
shuttle. Please feel free to email me with
questions in regard to technical aspects of the meeting
(gguala@usgs.gov).&nbsp; If you have questions related to logistics,
please contact Julie Anthony ( janthony@usgs.gov ) after Aug. 21st - or me directly if you need assistance before
then. &nbsp; I hope to
see you in September, Stinger Guala 
Gerald "Stinger"
Guala, Ph.D.
Director of the NBII Network and the Integrated Taxonomic
Information System (ITIS) and Biodiversity Information Serving
Our Nation (BISON)
Core Science Systems
U.S. Geological
Survey
12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, MS 302
Reston,
VA&nbsp;&nbsp;20192
Fax: 703 648-4224
Mobile: 703 927-0429
USGS
Office: 703 648-4311
Smithsonian Office: 202 633-0180
Mobile is
preferred for voicemail.

Around the Room: 

Suzie:  I accepted an invitation to attend the Developing Data Attribution and Citation Practices and Standards sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences Board on Research Data and Information and CODATA-ICSTI Task Group.  Bruce is presenting and I know Tricia  and Heather Piwowar will be there to as attendees. There may be other DataONEers too. 

Three new UT masters students funded by the IMLS grant  "Digital Curation Education in Research Centers" are integrating into some of our DataONE activities as part of their research assignments. Several IMLS funded ScienceLinks2 doc students are continuing to engage with DataONE activities in their research assignments. 

Kimberly Douglass is attending BISON

Carol: Viv and Lisa Zolly are helping us distribute baseline surveys to Federal libraries and data managers.

Amber: Successful ESA meeting last week.  51 attendees at the workshop for early researchers and ~212 at the special session on DMPs.  Presentation materials are on the DataONE website under training events.  Booth was also succesful - lots of visitors, lots of interest, lots of enthusiasm for public release and lots of support for the DMPTool.
As a result of feedback during the ESA, we are now getting the CEE Education modules online in advance of the fall teaching semester.  These were created by the CEE WG and edited and formatted by Viv's summer intern. 
Next week will be focused on finalization of the Best Practices materials ready for publication.
Making the MN 'registration / description' document more publicaly available following interest from Mark Stacy at UO.  Checked this with the MN priotitization subgroup and exec team.
Standing up as a co-chair of the DMPTool during Andrew Sallans leave this semester, alongside Trisha.

Bruce: Attending and presenting at the Data Attribution and Citation meeting Suzie mentinoed next week.  Working on getting the new equipment set up at UTK for the ORC node -- the rails didn't ship correctly.  New rails shipped yesterday; will work on racking the rest of the disks next week.  I also missed ordering some of the keyboard-video-mouse tools that needed to be included, and those have been ordered.  Will probably order VMWare licenses next week.  

Trisha: Hi.  We have set a date for release of the DMP Tool: Sept. 20th.  I will work with folks on formal announcements, fanfare, etc.  Carly collected some great information at ESA on the use of excel to manage data.  We would like to hook up with CCIT on this project.  We are talking to folks on the "Moorea Biocode Project" (sequencing an entire tropical ecosystem) on how to manage/publish their data.  We think this will be great data for DataONE. 

John Kunze: Talking again with Thomson-Reuters about harvesting citations from EZID.  Decision to base the Merritt member node on the MetaCat stack.

Cobb: Nothing new (still working on Sc'11 tutorial slide presnetations. Demo will probably work around LEAD XMCcat functionality)

Viv: USGS Community for Data Integration (CDI) meeting was this week -- Bill and Mike did a great plenary talk for over 150 participants in USGS and its partners. There was a "Data Blast" where a DataONE drive was demo'd by USGS student Ryan K, and also the DMP Tool was demo'd by LIsa Zolly. USGS is very interested in getting a template in the tool and making it available for USGS researchers. Viv and Lisa and a few others will be following up on that with a target completion date at the end of the fiscal year. 

Rebecca: Doing the All Hands Meeting registration slightly different this year.  We'll have a web form so that people can register online - should be available next week and will send out an email when it is available.

Also working with John Cobb and folks from UI on SC'11 tutorial


Bob C:  Beginning our next EVA working group activity, which will focus on benchmarking carbon cycle models with observations.  Our first teleconference is Monday and our first WG meeting will be in mid-November.

