2011-10-24

Matt
----
 * Changed schema
 * email is not in the node, context subject is (and is stable).  email can be looked up using identity manager
 * Working on implementing Java JCS to enable caching in d1_libclient_java

Roger
-----
 * Returned from vacation
 * Will work on schema updates today in the python stack


Rob
---
 * New laptop, dealing with getting Eclipse Indigo spun up under OSX Lion
 * Will work on #1864
 * Will work on moving d1_libclient_java forward with schema changes
 * Will upgrade stack to 1.0.0
 * Discussion on group management
   * Mechanism for MNs to sync local identity dbs to D1 identity db
   * Work needs to be done here, but needs to be thought through

Chris & Nick
------------
 * Working on upgrading cn-dev-2 testing environment, just got sudo access
 * Problems with LDAP initialization were solved, dc=dataone,dc=org tree is working
 * Once set up and decoupled from cn-dev-1 ldap, will continue testing MN replication
   * Metacat, REST-service, Process-daemon reinstalled
   * Metacat not initializing correctly, tracking down hazelcast connections
   * ReplicationManager not instantiating, again - hazelcast connections
 * Will use demo1-4 as replication sources and targets
 * Nick needs access to the demo machines, chris will send demo pw

2011-10-25

Robert
------
Change NodeRegistry API to include an email address of responsible party of the Node being created
  - decide where this information will be stored (most like LDAP)
  - decide how the email information will be accessed(???)
  - added verified boolean to Person
Modify d1_common_java to 1.0.0_shapshot level
Modify all POMS to be 1.0.0_snapshot level
Assist with replication tests
Finish Packages for Mercury and Indexer
- update Mercury installer package
- Solr package should be added in cn-core
- create Indexer package
Write up story about decision regarding server client certs

Roger 
- update lib_common_python to match V1.0.0 schema, including unit tests
- update lib_client_python to match changes to v1.0.0
- correct issues recorded for GMN

- I will be finishing up the schema 1.0.0 changes to the python stack today.
- Q: Dave, do you know when you will be adding the serialVersion to the APIs?
- Idea to discuss: Give serialVersion 0 a special meaning, which is to update the current sysmeta version, whatever version it is. Use case: When you want to create new access policy without regard to what it was before.


Dave 
- working through clean up of search index generation, coordinating with Giri and others for Mercury revisions
- add API revisions for supporting sysmeta revision
- need method to updateSystemMetadata on MNs, will be PUT /meta

Rob
- add task regarding formatid label, and update API documentation (#1893)
- after common_java update to schema 1.0, update libclient_java to 1.0, also after Matt's libclient checkins
- add InvalidToken to syncFailed method definition (d1_common_java) 
- work on the big d1_integration "complete test suite" tasks



