Attendees: Rebecca, Amber, Bill, Bruce, Trisha, Dave, Viv, Steph, John Cobb, Matt, Steve, John Kunze

Regrets: Bob Cook, Mike Frame, Todd Vision


http://epad.dataone.org/20110204-LT-VTC


 Agenda for 2011-02-04

1. DataONE NSF Review

We'll review status of the documents that need to be sent to NSF by COB on Monday,
February 7, 2011.  If time permits, will review status of presentation.

Locations on docs.dataone.org<http://docs.dataone.org/>:
Current version of NSF Review document:
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/documents-for-nsf-review/NSF%20DataONE%20Progress%20Report_vs0.9.docx/view

Comments in by noon (MST) on Sunday (so you can watch Super Bowl)

Charge to Panel:
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/The%20Charge%20Final.docx

Document causes Word to lock up so SAVE OFTEN

I.      Executive Summary (Lead:WM – input from ET & LT) {5 pages, including attractive, appropriate slide}
Reviewers: Steph, Bruce
(We're ~20 lines over here so need help with this)
 
II.    Introduction (Lead: WM – input from ET & LT) {1 page}
Reviewers: Steph, Bruce
 
 
III.  Cyberinfrastructure (Lead: DV with BW,MJ & ------) {8-9 pages}
 
Reviewers: Bruce, John C
 
 Question about operational metrics: - may want to reference performance metrics in PMP
 Monitoring in CI section? - highlight what monitoring - would be revelant to first question
 Not tracking stats because not live yet
 
 
IV.   Community Engagement (Lead: AB with CT,SA) {2 pages}
Reviewers: Viv, Bruce
 
 
V.     Sustainability (Lead: TC with WM, DV) {1 page}
Reviewers: Bruce, Trisha
 
VI.   Project Management (Lead: RK) {2 pages}
Reviewers: Bruce
 
 
VII.  Supplemental Material (Lead: RK)
a.     Proposal 
b.     Cooperative Agreement
c.      PMP latest versions at: (?) <https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/project-management-plans-pmp/?searchterm=pmp>

d.     Architecture Document (CI) (DV & MJ)
e.    Community Needs Assessment Document (CE)  (AE & CT) – (manuscript with
cover paragraph from Amber)


https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review

<https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/eab-feedback-posters/Feedback%20from%20DataONE%20EAB%20Meeting.docx>

Bruce: Have initial quotes back from Dell for UTK equipment purchase.  Will get a couple of other variations and have gotten some feedback on how the MD3220i devices are best configured.  

Trisha: Amber and I are working together on developing the Data Management planning partnership (UIUC, Smithsonian, UC, UVA, DataONE, Purdue)?)).  A press release will be issued announcing the partnership and the intent to create a tool on Feb. 14 or 15th.  If anyone wants to contribute a quote (an NSF quote???) let me know.  If anyone has any science outlets that we should target with the press release we can do that to.


Viv: Two new members for CEEWG: Heather Henkel (USGS) and Corinna Gries (LTER). 
Working with Kristin Vanderbilt and Amber to start planning a workshop for developing a formal online data management course
Submitted major proposal to USGS Powell Center for developing a data management process for USGS - several DataONE leaders have agreed to participate, if funded, and did review on proposal - there will be some overlap with DataONE activities if it goes forward. 


Steph: making good progress on draft manuscript for CEE working group with Carly, looks on track to be a good working first draft by end of our first meeting

Summer Institute at UNM for 3 weeks - Environmental Informatics
Kristin Vanderbilt (CEE WG) will coordinate this effort with Bill

Notes from Marratech:

[11:05 AM] John:  I volunteer to the be the second reader on any section
[11:05 AM] Trisha:  I can do some reading and I will volunteer John K. to ready he is good at that
[11:06 AM] Matt Jones joined.
[11:06 AM] Bruce:  Yup.  Working on it tonight and tomorrow.
[11:07 AM] Viv:  I can read some sections too...
[11:08 AM] John:  editing in word with change tracking on - right?
[11:08 AM] Rebecca: right!
[11:08 AM] Trisha:  so version 9 si what we should be looking at?
[11:08 AM] Rebecca: Yes
[11:10 AM] Viv:  R, can you put out a link to version .9?
[11:10 AM] John Kunze joined.
[11:10 AM] Bruce:  @viv -- in epad
[11:10 AM] Rebecca: https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/documents-for-nsf-review/NSF%20DataONE%20Progress%20Report_vs0.9.docx/view
[11:11 AM] Viv:  got it
[11:11 AM] Steve joined.
[11:13 AM] Bruce:  Any views on using CI instead of cyberinfrastructure?  I see a couple places where that helps a paragraph break.
[11:14 AM] John:  define first use and then use the abbreviation.
[11:14 AM] Viv:  WHAM!
[11:14 AM] John:  Q: What is the appropriate abbreviation? ci, Ci, CI (I vote CI)
[11:14 AM] Rebecca: CI
[11:16 AM] Bruce:  I also find using "show final" so that I can see what the doc looks like and not be confused with the tracks.
[11:18 AM] John:  Do we have any material in report or slides about operational statisitcs?
[11:18 AM] John:  such as uptime, planned outages, unplanned outages, ...
[11:18 AM] John:  mostly this will be a hint to ops metrics we will examine looking forward rather than in the first 18 months)
[11:20 AM] Trisha:  I can help you John
[11:24 AM] Rebecca: I put your name there & made it official
[11:24 AM] Trisha:  ok -- I was talking with my mute button
[11:26 AM] John:  huury up and buy or will will have to up the order even more :>
[11:27 AM] Rebecca: @Amber - found the UNM dept - will get contact info for press release
[11:28 AM] Matt:  Gries?
[11:28 AM] aebudden:  Thx - waiting for the group to finalise the draft press release before contacting UNM
[11:28 AM] Rebecca: Viv - will you send me the names and email addresses - have Corrina's just need the other one
[11:29 AM] Rebecca: @Trisha - please put your notes on epad
[11:29 AM] Viv:  yup
[11:29 AM] Bill:  yes indeed
[11:29 AM] Rebecca: @Viv also
[11:29 AM] Viv:  Corinna Gries
[11:30 AM] Matt:  awesome!
[11:31 AM] Bill:  awesome
[11:31 AM] Bill:  sunday noon
[11:32 AM] Matt:  Dave -- do we have an approx headcount for the CCIT meeting?
[11:33 AM] John:  TeraGrid'11 conference will be July 18-21 overlapping CCIT meeting
[11:34 AM] Matt:  Jim Regetz @ NCEAS is great with stats tutorials
[11:37 AM] Viv:  I can send a list to you today, Rebecca...
[11:37 AM] Rebecca: @Viv - Thanks!

[11:45 AM] aebudden:  https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/documents/management/nsf-reviews/nsf-review-february-2011/presentation-materials-for-nsf-review/current-working-copies-of-nsf-presentations-post-eab-review/DataONE%20NSF_OVERVIEW_Michener_2011%20Feb_vs2.0.pptx/view
[

