Kepler LT conference call
===================

Aug 10, 2011

Participants: Jones, Ludaescher, Schildhauer, McPhillips, Altintas, Brooks

Agenda and Notes:
---------------------------
* K/C final report (end of August), due 90 days after (end of November)
    -- Bertram: will organize and compile report overall
    -- All: send pubs
    -- Ilkay: survey of projects using Kepler; also individual users, especially PhD students
        -- use form on plone site
    -- Ilkay: should compile scientific pubs arising from Kepler
    -- Matt: compile download stats over time
    
* Dependency problems with build/module system
    
* Ilkay's items
   -- release plans
      -- Derik working on Kepler 2.3 release, and reporting modules release
      -- Need to plan 2.4 release
          -- Ilkay: should plan on including 'redirect; code in 2.4
          -- Include sensor-view support
          -- Ilkay: theme to bring other communities in
     -- how do we manage the release process? coordinate via the release roadmap pages for each release
         -- note that the release page dates are out of date
         -- update this:   https://kepler-project.org/developers/teams/build/kepler-release-roadmap
         -- how do we decide which bugs get fixed in the releases?
             -- especially considering the lack of funding?
         -- release manager: good, but also need a mini release team
             -- Tim: release team should control when a release is ready
             -- Tim: part of the problem is that our developers are not users, so don't always have the same perspective as users
         
  -- more outdated stuff on the web page:
  https://kepler-project.org/developers/management
  (Bertram, Mark: K/LT terms expired)
  -- broken links: 
  ---- https://kepler-project.org/developers/teams/build: Build and Release Team Charter (https://code.kepler-project.org/code/kepler-docs/trunk/teams-and-wg/2-teams/build-release/kepler-build-release-charter.doc) 
  
* Support issues
    -- need to do a better job supporting users as requests come in
    -- assignments were working reasonably, but we need to stay organized
    -- bug handler/triage:
    -- @NCEAS: Matt, Derik, Jing
    -- @Ptolemy: Christopher
    -- @Davis: Lei, Sean
    -- @UCSD: Ilkay, Dan, Jianwu
    -- rather than having individuals sign up, instead have groups sign up each week
    -- triage person to identify what is really wrong, follow through to completion
    -- reminder person: Matt
    
* Funding projects update
  -- UC Davis: FilteredPush project with Harvard University uses Kepler for "curation workflows"  (1 FTE: postdoc)
  -- USCSB/Cornell: Science Pipes for Education with ESA (~ 0.75 FTE engineer for 14 months) 
      -- working with a bunch of scientists to build educational workflows for science classes
  -- UCSD: bioKepler/NSF ABI (1.5 FTE through end of 2014)
  -- UCSD: DISCOSci/NSF CDI (0.5 FTE through end of 2103)
  -- UCSD: CAMERA/Moore F. (0.5 FTE through end of 2012)

Issues to roll over to next conf call:
* Future funding
* newsletter
* outreach
* Bertram, Mark: K/LT terms expired


