Standup call notes  2013 Block 2-3
==========================

Skye
 * 20130412
   * Noticed marshalling exceptions in dev due to null contact subjects - for Rob
   * Replication auditing meeeting
     * Generating reports for bad replicas on MNs and CNs
   * Fixes to the stage indexing noticed from SEAD
 * 20130410
   * Replication auditing meeting
     * need to discuss delete() or archive() usage
   * Adding in activity logging into auditing
   * Troubleshooting SEAD indexing
     * ORE processing is asynchronous
     * indexing tries to make sure referenced objects are present
     * big OREs are troublesome, but Solr URLs can be chunked
     * however, we allow packages of unbounded size
       * meltdown imminent
     * need to discuss hierarchical organization of packages
 * 20130408
   * Planning on meeting for dealing with invalid replicas
   * In touch with Kavitha (SEAD) and Ryan (Dryad) on a DSpace stack
 * 20130405
   * #3514 - installed in dev now
   * Assigned a metacat patch to matt - #3699
   * Need a meeting on auditing for dealing with CN bad replicas. will send out an email
   * DSpace is installed, running locally
     * Mutability will be a big factor
     * Saving past versions isn't currently supported
 * 20130403
   * Auditing testing in dev.  
     * Found bug in CNodeService preventing audit from updating verification date.
       * TODO: send patch to Matt
     * Found invalid original copies of objects, interesting - on demo5.  same pids/different checksums
   * DSpace - coming up to speed on it before planning D1 MN implementation
   * Redmine 3514
 * 20130401
   * Oddities in replication being investigated 
     * side effect of not using failure factor
       * saw serial version of in system metadata being increased when no replication occured
   * Auditing testing, going to test the whole process in dev
   * Started looking at DSpace tasks
     * Need to get the story entered into Redmine and get tasks de-composed.
     * What parts can we re-use from Dryad, SEAD DSpace implementations

Roger
 * 20130412
   * Continued ONEDrive mockups

 * 20130410
   * Working on mockups for ONEDrive
     * Using Fuse - sets up a directory structure, using screenshots
     * Two basic types of functionality in mockups
       * object discovery
       * presentation of objects
     * Usability group is meeting Apr/May shoulder
 * 20130408
   * Finished up suggested changes to MN checklist
     * fairly extensive changes
     * simplified upper levels
     * added details into linked documents
     * Re-wrote text, worked on logical order
 * 20130405
   * Working on MN deployment guide
   * Will be creating mockups for ONEDrive soon
 * 20130403
   * checking MN deployment checklist wrt GMN notes
     * has many edits and restructures - 
     * TODO: commit as a subdirectory of mn deployment directory
   * ONEdrive - finished phase 1 is complete, but not user friendly 
     * looking for input from Usability Group before moving forward
     * plan to meet with them at the end of the month
     * Dave's interface shown to scientists is probably close, but rough.
       * multiple browse hierarchies
       * what to do at the leaf nodes - how to present
     * discovery through the interface
     * TODO: mockups for next week to discuss
 * 20130401
   * Start to focus on redmine story for ONEDrive work breakdown
   * Will discuss with Chris B.

Rob
 * 20130412
   * Finished mutability proposal document
   * Working with Soren/EDAC - trouble with ORE format
   * Will work on server side API calls for version history access
   * Ryan will work on Dryad node next
 * 20130410
   * writing up the mutability proposal
 * 20130408
   * Updating d1_integrations tests
   * Working with Soren on syncFailed() and getReplica() calls
   * They aren't currently using ORE serialization for resource maps, will work with them on this
   * Working on mutability document
   * Dryad: had sent some bug fix requests to Ryan
     * some character encodings are incorrect for getLog()
     * he'll get to them after they deploy their new web UI
     * how are they going to deal with old versions?
 * 20130405
   * Webtester work - getReplica() test
     * Uses a public doc, isNodeAuthorized() isn't called, so the env dependency isn't as complex in testing
   * Working with Soren - EDAC
     * need a test certificate
     * synchronizationFailed() implementation - is throwing not implemented, but should be implemented
       * can do an IP check on it to stop spam if they're not using https + certs
     * identifiers - do we recommend that they use reserveIdentifier()?
 * 20130401
   * Working with Soren on EDAC
     * How they are formatting exceptions and response types
   * Discussed mutability and series ID with Dave
     * Incorporating in mutability epad:  http://epad.dataone.org/201301-mutability
     * Added a redmine feature: 3698
     * Issues with what is returned from different nodes can vary based on where they are on the sync and replication cycles

Chris B.
 * 20130412
   * ONEDrive and Ansible development: waiting on schema changes from Robert
   * Documentation work for when Chris leaves in August
 * 20130408
   * Network outage today - 10pm
   * DNS entry for splunk-orc.test.dataone.org
 * 20130408
   * Chris Jones and I will be handling outage at UT.
     * Scheduled for 4/10 10pm EDT to the morning of 4/11
     * Stopping the dataone services and taking the cn out of round robin.
     * Operations email waiting approval
   * Splunk
     * Feeding syslog data of cn-dev-orc-1 to splunk.
     * Need a DNS entry and a cert for the splunk server.
   * Ansible development stuck
     * Waiting on schema from Robert.

 * 20130403
   * OIT has rescheduled the network shutdown for April 10th
     * impacts everything at ORC - all VM's unaccessible for several hours.
       * UT campus, not Oak Ridge campus
     * TODO: get timing info, and send notification to operations mailing list
     * find the plan that was going to be used in the fall

 * 20130401
   * Put Splunk behind SSL
   * Need to see about obtaining an "official" SSL cert.
   * Completed move to Knoxville (no more going back to Nashville)
   * Waiting on Robert Waltz for XML schema to finish Ansible playbooks
   * Need to Sync with Roger on OneDrive work

Ben L.
 * 20130412
   * Morpho update: replace "Owner" wording with "Creator" to prevent negative connotation of "data ownership" and also to align with EML field name that stores it.
   * TFRI approved in cn-stage, but there is an SSL peer unverified exception (surprise surprise). I believe it has to do with them using a DataONE Test CA issued server certificate. Have instructed Meei-ru to include the CA chain file in their Apache directives.
   * Morpho/Kepler (TFRI commiunication):
     * I've instructed Chau Chin Lin how to change the language used in both Morpho and Kepler (uses the OS/system locale). He wants the ability to run those programs in English even if the rest of his computer is running Chinese. I believe his team even modified their version of Morpho to allow this. It is certainly possible to set the locale for Morpho on start-up to a pre-configured locale. Perhaps add this to the advanced configuration screen.
   * cn-dev environment upgraded to use Metacat 2.0.6 on all three CNs. Awaiting test results before tagging release from the 2.0.6 branch.
   * Will be meeting with semantics WG next week as they are in town at NCEAS (mon-wed)
 * 20130410
   * TFRI MN is back, working with Meei-ru
     * Will work in stage
     * Unicode: language issues were with Morpho/Kepler and the translations we have, not any technological issue. 
 * 20130408
   * Identity Service and /portal issues WRT UTF-7, escaping, LDAP storage, etc.
     * working on cn-dev
 * 20130405
   * Working on releasing Metacat 2.0.6
   * Working with TFRI
   * DataUp meeting in SB - soliciting ideas on writing a proposal to further the work
 * 20130403 not present
 * 20130401
   * Replication Policy in Morpho wizard
   * Preparing for metacat release, might be issue with deployment on CN that needs to be further tested (regarding updateSystemMetadata() not always being called)

Matt
 * 20130410
   * Reviewing the MN Checklist document
   * Helping Kavitha with SEAD questions
   * Mostly focusing on other projects
   * Plone sites going down every 24 hours or so
     * Nick's working on it
 * 20130408
   * MN checklist work needs consolidation
     * concensus is to keep it in subversion for now
     * Laura will focus on Coordination sections
     * some feedback - still confusing
 * 20130403 nothing to report
 * 20130401
   * Checklist for MN Deployment coming along, still needs some details, but its probably useful now
     * http://mule1.dataone.org/OperationDocs/member_node_deployment/mn_checklist.html
   * http://ask.dataone.org is going live

Robert
 * 20130412
   * Working on CN buildout scripts, will meet with Chris B today
   * CNs are 8 pids out of sync on cn-orc-1 - will try to resync
   * Shibboleth will be deployed at UT in May (rumor?)
 * 20130405
   * DataUp meeting in SB
 * 20130403 not present
 * 20130401 not present

Chris J.
 * 20130412
   * Reviewing mutability proposal
   * Working on broadcast of system metadata change in CNodeService in Metacat (dev env)
   * SEAD work with Kavitha
   * MN Wranglers discussion with Laura, John, Rebecca, etc.
 * 20130410
   * working on the SEAD MN deployment in stage
     * CN-CN replication issues: look at Metacat timed replication config
     * formatid issues
     * count=0 bug
     * 217 of 218 objects indexed so far, but indices are out of sync
     * ORC not indexing
   * TODO: DNS entry for splunk-orc.test.dataone.org
 * 20130408
   * troubleshooting metacat CNodeService changes
   * Working with Kavitha on SEAD
   * TODO: change formats to only allow OREs as RESOURCE
   * TODO: EDAC test certs
   * TODO: Dryad ticket for checksum() uniqueness
 * 20130403 not present
 * 20130401 - (not present) (in ABQ for Sensor Net meeting) 

Dave V.
 * 20130412
   * Looking into RSS feeds in the sphinx documentaion
   * Mutability doc review
   * Semantics
   * Documentation: allocate a week to bring it up to date - week after next
     * also need to create versioned documentation
 * 20130410
   * Backlog
   * Worked on the DataPackaging documentation
 * 20130408
   * Writing a proposal for DataUp
   * Working through ticket backlog
   * TODO: fix documentation to only support ORE serialization for now
 * 20130405
   * Just getting back in
   * Usability of ONEDrive
   * Questions on ONEDrive use of foresite?
     * Roger - finished that work up
 * 20130403 not present
 * 20130401 not present

Discussion on MN checklist
 * Diagram suggested changes: generate via Sphinx and graphviz
   * Dave: Powerpoint is easier for other users, should stick with it
 * Selecting a Tier should be part of planning
 * Factored out common pages (like registration) and pointed to it from multiple higher pages (prod registration, test registration)
 * 
 * Simplifying the "Development" or "Build" section
   * Plan
   * Test?
   * Deploy
   * Operate

XHDY6THAKK


