Sprint Notes for 2013-12-Block-2-2
==================================

Skye
----
 * 20130327
   * Robert discussing a replacement to the hzNodes map
   * Need some design work on for the Node registry functionality
   * Need to discuss CN invalid replica issues and strategies on how this will work
   * Will be testing auditing, but CN auditing response to invalid content in Metacat needs to be addressed
   * 
 * 20130325
   * differing opinions for handling replicas in auditing
     * Dave - delete bad replicas
     * Chris - history of bit-rot (invalidated status in replica)
     * Matt - purposed of invalidated is simply to note the bad state.
   * Q. how to re-replicate (replace invalid copy with valide one)?
   * Q. who is authoritative for checksum?  CN should be.
 * 20130322
   * Continued replication work - strategies
     * Questions re: authoritative MN
       * auth_mn is the co-owner, and curator of an object
       * checksum authority might need to be a majority algorithm
 * 20130320
   * MN-MN to Replication
     * Replication DAO queries
     * ReplicaAuditingStrategy - some questions re: verifying replicas
     * Will continue work on unit tests

Ben
---
 * 20130327
   * Morpho UI work
   * Migrating Metacat/Morpho bugzilla migration with Nick
   * Working with Matt/Jing on Morpho/Metacat
 * 20130325
   * keeping calm and carrying on...
 * 20130322
   * Testing replication within KNB/PISCO/LTER/SANPARKS, etc.
     * dealing with sync errors
     * SANPARKS first, on the order of 3K objects
 * 20130320
   * Wrapping up UI changes in Morpho
   * Will be planning a Metacat release for 2.0.6
   * Will work with Matt on IdP
 * 20130318
   * ask.dataone.org
     * Needs some work to flesh it out prior to making it public
     * Everyone needs to contribute to get some karma


Chris B
-------
 * 
 * 20130325
   * not much to report yet
   * Waiting on Robert Waltz to send the latest XML schema to me 

 * 20130322
   * Met with Robert, agreed on apt and ansible configuration
     * Will add write up to ops documention
   * Splunk - worked with Bruce on Wednesday
     * SSL access is next
 * 20130320
   * Splunk
     * Installed Splunk, configured and started the service
     * Completed some of the basic tutorials
     * Next step is to start collecting some test data and using it with the splunk apps provided.

   * Ansible
     * Private site module
       * Adapting Rob Waltz's work to ansible
       * Have the XML and schema validation working for the sample site configuration xml sent out by waltz
       * Working on xpath queries using the information from the configuration data and network interface data

 * 20130318 
   * Splunk
     * Setup a VM at ORC
     * Created an account at Splunk
     * Next step  is to install the software and begin server setup
     * 

   * Ansible
     * Completed first pass at the debconf module
       * Adding some more features
         * Adding the results to the global variables for playbooks
       * Looking into including the module in the next release of Ansible.

   * Private site module
     * Adapting Rob Waltz's work to ansible
       * Using python ctypes to call the getifaddrs call to the network interfaces call should work on BSD, Linux and Mac



Robert
------
 * 20130327
   * Working on config Types XSD, will send out sample XMl for Chris to review
   * Miriam will chat with Dave re: faq on the website, wrt ask.dataone.org
   * Usability and Assessment workshop in late April, early May: Robert will send out the agenda
 * 20130325
   * not much to report - sidelined by hardware issues.
 * 20130322
   * Q: sync returning InvalidSystemMetadata #3671, A: reject
   * Working with Chris B. on debian conf schema
     * will be adding in element under templates
 * 20130320
   * debian configuration parsing
     * created an XML schema for our debian configuration
     * <environment>
 * 20130318
   * os-core continued work (bashing in bash)
   * WRT location of os-core properties:
     * publish props files like we do schemas
     * need to be careful using trunk files in production
     * will create a location on dev-testing.dataone.org

Rob
---
 *  20130327
   * Sketching out seriesId requirements
   * Will work with Dave re: mutability
     * Thinking through how some MNs may not store older revisions
     * May need to hold onto sysmeta
   * Get CCIT SB meeting notes and whiteboard doc. on series ID 
 * 20130322
   * In touch with Ryan at Dryad
     * ORE map issues - consistent bytes, might have to call 5 times.
   * Ryan has questions about encoding ids
     * Doing partial encodings in the ORE docs - needs fixing
     * encoding of identifiers seems to be ok in ORE docs.
       * (url encoded when pid part of the resolve URL, not encoded when just identifier)
     * the problem is with return Log type, where & in the xml are not xml-escaped
   * Semantics of OREs (wrt archived docs not in the Solr index)
     * Can you remove triple statements in an ORE?
       * obsolete the old package
       * new ORE will get new relationships as needed
 * 20130320
   * Writing up tickets re: archive flag
     * recreating the obsolecense chain is difficult if we archive() on update()
     * ben: indexing is: SysMeta.archived != true OR objects SysMeta.obsoletedBy != null
     * suggestion: create a new API calls:  
       * {CN|MN}.getObsolecenseChain(pid) and/or
       * {CN|MN}.getRevisionHistory(pid) and/or
       * {CN|MN}.getLatestIdentifier(pid)
     * TODO: will write up API additions proposal for the above, note: related to get(seriesId), etc.
 * 20130318
   * Friday: documentation, 
     * latest content, resource maps, and supporting mutability
     * curation issues
     * https://repository.dataone.org/documents/Projects/cicore/guides/NOTES.txt
     * we may be introducing a 'published' state

Matt
----

 * 20130327
   * Working on MN checklist with Chris
     * Need to ccordinate with Laura Moyers and the MN Wranglers group
 * 20130325
   * continuing member node checklist coming on-line.
   * would like to get folks working on testing to comment on the non-codified tests.
 * 20130322
   * MN Forum call
     * MN reps
       * existing nodes: Bob Waide, Mike Frenock, etc
       * new nodes
     * Helped to clarify where we are lacking
     * Need to be explicit about tests
     * http://mule1.dataone.org/OperationDocs/member_node_deployment/overview.html
 * 20130318
   * ISEES workshop last week
   * ask.dataone.org work

Dave
----
 * 20130327
   * Will chat with Rob re: mutability

Chris
-----
 * 20130327
   * TODO: set up a CN auditing meeting
 * 20130322
   * Replication work with Ben
   * KNB conf call with Matt, Jing, Ben
   * LTER sensor workshop coordination
   * Documentation checklist for MN deployments
   * http://mule1.dataone.org/OperationDocs/member_node_deployment/overview.html
 * 20130318
   * TODO: change the MN.update() arch docs to note that it SHOULD set the archived flag to true




