Notes for Sprints in 2013-30-Block-4-3
======================================


David
-----
 * 20130802
   * Met with Bruce
     * Taking over ask.dataone.org duties
     * Bruce is working on MN Wrangling, David will assist
   * Splunk work with Chris
   * Last week of ugrad
 * 20130731
   * Class work
   * Small problems using Windows on David's Dell machine
     * Robert may help
   * Will be meeting with Bruce tomorrow re: schedule
 * 20130729
   * Testing a local splunk installation
   * Will be working on the firewall today
   * 20hrs/week this week
 * 20130726
   * Will work on VM and splunk installations this weekend
 * 20130724
   * Local Ansible build at ORC
 * 20130722
   * Large commit on all docs for ORC sysadmin
     * Done to 1.0 point, may add images, etc.
   * Bruce would like David to work on ask.dataone.org

Rob
---
 * 20130809
   * cut a tag of libclient (1.2.5) with ORE parsing feature
     * Skye is testing it
   * Working on documentation with Laura Moyers
   * We need operational procedures
 * 20130807
   * Worked with Laura Moyers on documentation
     * lots of docs spread out (Ops, Archs, www.dataone.org, etc)
     * need documentation on adding object formats
   * Merritt: status on updates of resource maps
   * Release notes
     * hopefully can use story text for 'Features' in a Change Log
     * 'Bug' text for 'Bug Fixes' in the Change Log
     * will use a redmine query to produce Change Logs (based on categories)
     * We should have a milestone story for each release
       * relate other stories back to that milestone story
   * 
 * 20130724
   * commited changes to ResourceMapFactory.parseResourceMap() in libclient
     * impacts how DataPackage reads ResourceMaps to build the metadata map
     * allows parseResoutceMap to pick up the isDocumentedBy statements when building the metadata map.  Some resource maps only use isDocumentedBy, not the inverse documents.  
     * added more real-world resource map examples into d1_test_resources
   * Working on Merritt ORE issues
     * researched the option of maintaining a "D1Jena" implementation for RDF/XML in libclient_java.
     * (in foresite, packages include atom. rdf/xml, rdfa impls, etc)
     * approach:
       * The "D1Jena" impl would extend 5 or 6 out of the 10 Jena impl. classes
       * parseResourceMap() would call the D1Jena impl directly, instead of delegating the choice of impl to OREParserFactory
 * 20130722
   * Refactoring ResourceMapParser
   * Worked with the foresite python parser
     * Need some help with this - will work with Roger
       * python -c "import sys; print '\n'.join(sys.path)"

Ben
---
 * 20130809
   * Working on PISCO issues with Mike
   * Dashboard work
 * 20130807
   * Continued work with TFRI Chinese characters in Morpho
   * Worked on Dashboard prototype
 * 20130805
   * KNB upgrade and roll out
   * Working through redmine tickets
   * MN followups
   * iEcolab may be next
 * 20130802
   * Prepping Metacat release
     * Upgrading KNB soon
   * MN deployment tickets - will be working on these
 * 20130731
   * Working with security audit group from NCSA
     * Focused on CNs and Identity Management component
     * Touches on MNs
     * Incident plans - compromise, inappropriate content, etc.
 * 20130726
   * Meet with the Cyber security folks re: report
   * Added bagit download facility to Metacat
   * can be pushed back into the CNs and other MNs
   * Some indexing issues of EML
     * index has some blank fields because it's not following EML references

Chris B
-------
 * 20130809
   * finished resource map testing - incomplete/nested
   * will commit now
   * DNS requests
 * 20130805
   * Worked with Skye Friday on custom resource map
     * outdated jar
     * tested nested resource map
     * will test incomplete nested resource map (missing documentedby and documents) to determine if full relationship s can since be determined as with falt maps.
   * Noticed that a resource without at least one isDocumentedBy or documents doesn't not appear in the Map<Identifer, Map<Identifier, List<Identifer> i.e. the second level map doesn't have an entry with the key as the resource and an empty list for it's value. 
     * Should this be the behavior or should it include the resource in the returned map with an empty list since it is still aggregated by the resource map?

   * David *maybe* out ths week
 * 20130802
   * Reinstalled ansible.dataone.utk.edu
     * Problem with 10.04 - upgrade failed
     * Set up 12.04 from scratch
   * Working with David on splunk and ldap
   * Will work with David on firewall and sshd administation
   * Resource map testing - working on a nested version
 * 20130731
   * SSH keys - still needed from Ben, Dave, Matt, Skye
   * ORE map work
     * Dryad resource map
   * Firewall issue fixed for Skye
 * 20130729
   * Splunk: configured with syslogd
   * ORE map testing in indexing
     * worked fine on Friday
     * working on a more complex test
   * Still need ssh keys for Ansible access
 * 20130724
   * Ansible VM is set up
     * need ssh keys from everyone
   * Worked with David re: keys
     * LDAP shell account not set up?
 * 20130722
   * Worked with Robert on Ansible


Robert
------
 * 20130809
   * Got the 'SimpleConstructorDecorator' coded. While generating some initial tests, determined that the 'NonEmptyString...' Decorators were incomplete and so am refactoring them.
   * Need to complete refactoring and creating unit tests
   * Need to work on production node count size problem. stop/restart tc on UNM(?)
   * need to complete review of Skye's auditing buildout code
   * Need to complete work on ansible helper script
   * Add tasks for synchronization to check the objectList Identifier pid against the systemMetadata Identifer pid. Also perform a serialization of the systemmetadata and perform a schema validity check before create/update ops.
   * need to review logAggregation code change request
 * 20130807
   * Reviewed Skye's auditing buildout code - needs a little more review
   * Worked on JibX decorators
     * added in validators for simple types (800 char, no whitespace, non empty)
     * Constructors will need to throw exceptions
     * Code using these will need to handle exceptions
   * Ansible training: send Chris SSH certs
     * see http://epad.dataone.org/Ansible-CN-Usage-Notes
 * 20130805
   * Completed work on 2 decorators that insert conditionals:
     * no white space
     * max length 800
     * non empty string
     * working on unit tests
     * will work on constructor decorator
   * afraid.org DNS trouble - Chris will ping nick
 * 20130802
   * Upgraded CN Dev machines
   * Looking at http client in other components
     * Metacat - has two http client jars
     * Can we move to Solr 4 + new HTTP client versions?
   * Ansible machine installed, so Robert has been testing
     * working on local VM, will now look at the d1 ansible VM
   * Contiued work on decorator patterns in JibX
   * TODO: Examining CNs being out of sync
   * Fixed problematic pids pointed out by Skye
 * 20130731
   * Worked on Eclipse/JDT programming for JibX
     * Good progress on creating conditional, etc.
     * Will next focus on how to generate constructors
     * Working toward constructor decorators
 * 20130729
   * Researching JibX modifications for JDT/Eclipse
 * 20130726
   * Production upgrades went well
     * Now using Ansible, updates will use Ansible now too
     * Ansible machine? 
   * Working on JibX tickets now
     * whitespace validation in pids, etc.
   * Time off this afternoon
 * 20130724
   * Installing production servers, ucsb and unm first
   * Minor hiccup in staging last night
     * stable to stable upgrade, ldapsearch against dc=org failed
     * circumvented by updating dbian flag to not do that search
     * ldap.populated flag wasn't set to true
 * 20130722
   * Tried completing Ansible install testing in sandbox
     * minor problem installing LDAP on the *second* CN in a fresh install
     * Will reinstall old 1.1 version, then do upgrade
     * Then branch and move to staging hopefully tag today

Skye
----
 * 20130809
   * 1.2.2 release work:
     * waiting on Chris to roll tests in
     * waiting on Dryad support, need to scrub dev CNs
     * Dryad had wrong pid listed in sysmeta objects
     * Waiting on Merritt and ONEShare OREs updated
   * Will change ONEMercury to remove 'down' MNs
 * 20130807
   * 1.2.2 patch release for indexing, Dryad support?
   * Rob: need to release libclient for this
   * Need Ansible training (everyone really)
   * Getting Dryad science metadata in cn-dev
     * fixing a pid handling issue
     * dealing with ONEMercury pid handling issue
   * Worked on cn-auditing
 * 20130805
   * CN auditing is running on cn-dev-unm-1
   * mod_proxy conflicting with log aggregation
     * will work on this to today
   * New dataone-cn-auditing buildout
   * Will be turning toward indexing
 * 20130802
   * Figured out Zookeeper config - needed to open ports 7612, 7632
   * Writing a shell script to use dynamic IP vs hardcoded
   * Worked on XSLT on reporting MN auditing
   * Connecting to Apache: mod_proxy http forwarding instead of AJP
     * AJP is too slow according to Jetty docs
   * Monday: work with Robert on OS Core issues
   * Think about Zookeeper as an alternative to CN comms (vs Hazelcast)
     * May help distribute log agg messaging
 * 20130731
   * Got Solr Cloud running on all 3 dev machines
     * Ran some tests with auditing
     * Standalone zookeeper config has some problems
     * Not communicating across members in zookeeper?
     * Quorum needs majority for electing cloud leader
       * Some trouble with this
     * Will work on the zookeeper config
     * Most examples embed zookeeper into the servlet container
   * XSLT on MN audit report
   * Branching libclient:
     * Latest is 1.2.4 from June
     * Can push changes into the branch, but may need Rob's assistance
 * 20130729
   * Testing auditing
   * Configuring Zookeeper today
   * Task: One CN is out of sync with the other CNs
     * Robert will delete from the single CN
   * Dryad schema support for 1.2.2?
 * 20130726
   * SolrJ is running
   * Had trouble with the UNM network
   * Waiting on results from Merritt re: ORE updates
   * 
 * 20130724
   * Testing auditing today, running on unm-dev-1
     * need port unblocked for Zookeeper
 * 20130722
   * continued work on Solr/Jetty, etc in indexing

Dave
----
 * 20130809
   * Reviewing schedule for project Y5
   * Evaluating AWS Route 53 for DNS management
   * Reviewing Splunk
     * can send:
       * system logs : disks, cpu, mem, etc (step 1)
       * CN infrastructure: logs from each service (step 2)
     * can produce:
       * usage reports
     * can be run on multiple servers, one for now
     * can segregate envs (log on dev, sandbox, etc.)
     * can do realtime alerts, could replace check_mk and nagios
 * 20130807
   * Some Non-D1 work
   * Working on interactions with Elsevier to publish DataONE content
     * API addition: /view service
     * see http://knb.ecoinformatics.org/m/#view/doi:10.5063/AA/knb-csun-usvi.10700 for #view service example
     * returns an HTML fragment without header/footer HTML
 * 20130805
   * Non-DataONE work / administrative
   * Looking toward ONEDrive next
 * 20130802
   * Working through redmine tickets for scheduling
   * Worked on changelog reporting for tickets/svn
     * Need to work against tickets for all commits
   * UNM network outage, need to prepare for this
 * 20130731
   * Reports and conf calls...
   * Will look into Changelog support through Mylyn in Eclipse
 * 20130726
   * Continued work on annual and quarterly reports
   * Continued ONEDrive work
     * speedy
   * More from Mike F:
     * different results per run
     * ONE CN showing different content
     * 
 * 20130724
   * Working on ONEDrive
   * Project reporting
 * 20130722
   * Tied up with meeting and travel last week
     * MN dashboard and Log stats are important
   * Continuing with ONEDrive dev


Roger
-----
 * 20130802
   * Wrapping up CLI work
     * on PyPI now, and installed on a local VM, tested
     * Will work on reporting downloads of libs from PyPI
     * Will be out Monday and next
 * 20130731
   * Implemented the updateAccessPolicy and updateReplicationPolicy commands in the CLI.
   * Worked through the documentation. Will be checking it in shortly.
   * Next: Tag a release candidate of the CLI, d1_common and d1_client, and create a PyPI distribution.
 * 20130729
   * Checking in the CLI now
   * Will work on documentation
   * Questions on adding ACLs and ReplPolicies
 * 20130726
   * Continued work on the CLI check in
 * 20130724
   * Looking to wrap up work on the CLI today. In final stages of adding in user input validation.
 * 20130722
   * Continued work on the CLI.
   * Write operations now use the session to create operation objects.
   * The operation objects are queued and can be viewed and edited.
   * The queue of operations can then be executed.

Chris
-----
 * 20130809
   * Troubleshooting afraid.org DNS issue with Dave
   * Working on d1_dashboard
     * working through UAW requirements docs/ppt/spreadsheets
     * Working on mockups
     * Organizing code impl layout with Ben
 * 20130807
   * Worked on Dryad scimeta parsing issue in cn-dev
     * Skye: are we missing any docs?
   * Dashboard work with Ben
     * define a model for the report view for cn-log-index
   * DNS troubleshooting with ns2.afraid.org
 * 20130802
   * Metacat deployment work with Ben
   * Dryad testing
   * Question about Solr indexing/querying
 * 20130731
   * TODO: work on Dashboard story that combines UI and API tickets
   * Working on Metacat release with Ben
   * Attempting to test Dryad scimeta sync in dev: 
     * had some trouble, will work with Robert on d1-processing
 * 20130729
   * TODO: add CLI changes to the MN sys meta management ticket
   * TODO: Test Dryad scimeta
   * Continued work on Metacat features
 * 20130722
   * Coordination on 1.2.1 release with Skye, Robert, Chris
   * Meeting on Friday re: Ansible-based deployment plans
   * Working on Metacat tickets
   * Will be working on DAAC issue, getting an exhaustive list of identifiers with mismatched checksums/byte sizes


Other Topics
============

Last Quarter 2013 Prioritites
------------------------
   * Adding MNs
     * helps with performance report
   * Adding in a Dashboard
     * Usage stats, LogStats
     * Beta by the all hands meeting in Oct.
     * Content status report (summary stats: counts, public vs private objects)
   * Documentation
     * Needs to be polished for all components
     * A guide, in between detailed API description and high level docs
       * with examples
       * Rob and Robert have started this
       * Helpful to new developers

Ansible Discussion
------------------
 * Running ansible requires public certs for admin
 * Potential separate Ansible VM?
 * Should we have a shared admin account or individual accounts?
   * Individual account access let's us know eho's doing installs
   * 

Dashboard discussion
--------------------
Folders containing discussion notes and other products of the subgroup on metrics and statistics
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/working-groups/usability-and-assessment/meetings-usability-and-assessments-working-group/joint-u-a-sc-wg/metrics-and-statistics
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/working-groups/usability-and-assessment/meetings-usability-and-assessments-working-group/2012-ahm/metrics-and-statistics-subgroup-ahm-2012

Document highlighting particular metrics and their relative importance
https://docs.dataone.org/member-area/working-groups/usability-and-assessment/meetings-usability-and-assessments-working-group/2012-ahm/metrics-and-statistics-subgroup-ahm-2012/metrics-table-from-PMP-ver-05May2012.docx
 * Cron report
   * Script that hits the log index with an admin cert
   * D1 Proposal Metrics requirement
     * stuff:
       * total objects
       * object format type - (or formatType: DATA, METADATA, RESOURCE)
       * "data packages"
       * Volume of data available (total size of data holdings)
     * categorizing / grouping across:
       * current vs obsoleted
       * public vs private
     * Events:
       * read (get content), everyone
       * create, everyone
       * update, administrators, sponsors, DataONE team, MN operators, content creators
       * delete, administrators, sponsors, DataONE team, MN operators, content creators
       * (replication failed), administrators, MN operators
       * (synchronization failed), administrators, MN operators

     * how much is available
     * how much is being used
     * show changes over time
 * Dashboard view
   * Users
   * MN Ops
   * D1 Ops
   * Sponsors
   * Client should access a single service
     * keeps CNs from being inundated
     * Create a specific group in log aggregation to limit access
   * Instead of redacting fields from LogEntrys returned, could just set rows=0 if cert == public
   * Data View
     * be able to filter by dates (downloads per month, etc., creates per month)
     * initially show a static time range
     * Add a 'Total Downloads' column on the 'Data View'
   * System View
   * MNDetailView
     * Slice by usage
   * DataFilesView
     * Show usage (downloads) by DATA format type
     * Show usage (downloads) by time frame
   * HistoryView?

