Attendees: Rebecca, Sean, Karrie, Scott, Jane,  Alex, Cristina,

Regrets:


25 November 2015
RDA Metadata Standards Directory Working Group


Switching to SILS-3 UNC-CH (SKYPE) - seems to be a problem with audiio in UK on GoToMeeting

1.  Please join my meeting, Nov 25, 2013 at 
7:00 AM AST/ 9:00 AM MST/ 10:00 AM CST/ 11:00 AM EST/ 4:00 PM GMT
https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/889918200

2.  Use your microphone and speakers (VoIP) - a headset is recommended. Or, call in using your telephone.

Dial  1 (636) 277-0136
Access Code: 889-918-200
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 889-918-200

Revised ‘draft’ agenda.
 * Updates on action items (jg, Rebecca, Keith, Alex) - skip for now and handle by email

 * Cristina/Sean, report on findings
Received 32 responses (4 that weren't able to use: 3 not detailed enough, 1 filled out incorrectly)
 60 new entries, either addition to existing standard or new standard
 Great response given it was during the US government shut down - survey is still open 
 
DCC happy to maintain catalog on their site until RDA WG has established a platform
9 more responsese since the survey closed
What would be good next steps for move forward?
survey remains open on RDA page
Sean:  The info. via the survey is a mixed bag, some is good, other stuff is a little less
'Community editing' woould nice.  
Next steps:
Sean willing to continue on, Cristina will be in area and interested in helping out
Another possibility for student support: DataONE Summer Internshp program (https://www.dataone.org/internships)
    
    
 * Ideas/discussion for use cases (all, Scott, Karrie)

Kari talking what cases are we trying to solve w/the use cases
sorting ... 
could we consider what is there, how to use.
ALEX - aphabetical, several subdivisions of the list, different format specific use cases, e.g., get data w/DDI, and how to deal with it.  Use cases for both repositories, looking to support particular stanards, and researchers looking for standards on how to ... 
Kari: use cases at different levels, making a ruberic, to ... scalable...
tag the use cases, 
is there a way to tag them...
would tagging work...
ALEX:  Cases of the standard being used, maybe use cases is not the best word
Frist class objects in their own right, use cases, what community... 
DataBIB, R3DATA... don't want to duplicate... 
Amy Barton datacite RDA group! create a workshop on what the directory could be used for..
what is a use case entail, have some use case of working through.. coming up with the standard is applied, this data ... audience:  librarians, available.
Kari - one type of user, narrow 
People who added in use cases, 

DataBib different: not so much about the metadata standards. Data repository focus.

KAri
- provide examples that don't exist (Scott + Amy B.)
- Categorize 

Rebecca: researcher point of view:
  + documenting for reuse
  + documenting for sharing
  
  Great point, Rebecca!  broaden scope... include researchers.  
  HAVE researchers in the workshop.  Librarians + Researhers... building bridges..

Follow on assessment: what the parties got out of it.

Could we start a google doc. about types of use cases
One possibility:  look through the uses cases that are there and classify
Audience coming from different levels so trying to address those various levels
Figure out a way to tag the use cases


 * Open discussion on findings (all)



 * Considering next steps (all)
 * Brainstorm action items (all)
   * Sean, Jane, Rebecca, Keith help out in send, new survey participation... google doc.
   * Sean/Cristina: 9 news ones, Sean will pull in (Monday)
   * Jane send email to SILS to find new student
   * Rebecca & Jane write up plan for summer intern
   * Karrie. et al, work on Rubric for use cases?/ experience cases
   * ALEX:  Could can help recommend methodical way.. to review (Karrie look at 25, and see)
   * Put 25 of these example cases in google doc., come up w/a plan! 8 pages of 10, node order
     * (Sean): can provide a list of the existing usecases on DCC actually ~60 "cases"
   * Karrie testing, ethnographic interviews with1-2 faculty coming to DCC directory -- does this give them what they needs
   * Scott & Amy Barton-using the directory wksp working closely with Karrie
   * Keith - adversiting push at Dublin, consider an approach for interactive participation in DCC.

 * Consider next meeting (all)
   * Week of the 16th. 
   * Jane: Set up Next Meeting with Doodle poll
   * Using Skype
   * More participants? Can adverstise to the whole WG email list
   * Check case statement before next meeting - https://rd-alliance.org/working-groups/metadata-standards-directory-working-group.html
   * 

 * Dublin and pre-Dublin planning
 * WG, key think get more people involved, what are some of the positives of what has been done, what are some of the obstacts, could be addresses... 
 * meeting w/MIG and Metadata, making an open meeing...
 * Rebecca, what platform could be used... 
 * Sean outline 3 possibilities... a paragraph on each idea.  Long term platform.

