Next meeting date to-be-confirmed

"Goal approach" for next meeting - *All, let's get goals down here:
** keep in mind:  End-of-2014 goals 1.) prototype for collaborative direcotry :) and 2.) develop use cases
** good idea for everyone to read our case statement before next meeting.


in process:
 * Update on CAMP proceeding (group + Jian)
 * Thinking about spiffing up RDA web presence (everyone, Alex, consider pulling from DCC directory site; all, consider visual w/Cristina's data)
 * Planning for RDA 3rd plenary (everyone)
 * Connecting w/Scott and Karrie/Jan. meeting (to-be-confirmed)
 * Sean's work on wirte frames (Sean)
 * Summer intern via DataONE (Rebecca, Jane)
 * Communication w/Beth Pale on possible student fellow 

recent action items
 * RDA mailing list/web logging (completed-Rebecca, but testing will continue)
 * Sharing all google docs for student work (completed)
 * RDA WG updates (Keith, Rebecca, Jane - most recent updates Dec. 20)
 * Slides from 2nd RDA plenary and EUDAT talk in archives (completed)


Attendees:
Jane, Keith, Rebecca, Alex

Regrets:

 
Draft agenda:
 * Action items
 * Update on CAMP proceeding (s?). Iâ€™ll also connect w/Jian.Need reviewers, help w/end.Jane email Stuart and say Jan. 6)
 * Review of previous action items (all) See below
 * RDA presence/Web (Keith, et al)
   * jane/Alex coordinate to get some nice graphic/data reporting from master's paper work and DCC data analytics
   * Rebecca/Keith continue heroic efforts to figure out how we can best use the RDA forum. NB. New email address: rda-mdir-wg@rda-groups.org.
   * (https://rd-alliance.org/mig-metadata-interest-group.html, make an obvious link to RDA metdata IG home)
 * Responding to new interoperabilty group (all to respond individually)
 * Student updates/ideas (all) Sean is working on some wireframes - will revisit
 * DCC update (Alex) (fix use cases etc., get them in ABC order, to-be-followed up on)
 * RDA 3rd plenary (Keith, all) (Keith on it)
 * Connecting w/Scott and Karrie (will have January meeting 2nd or 3rd week)

Notes:
Let's define some goals for our next meeting.
Everyone think about goals, what they would like to see accomplished in our next meeting.
Jane - doodle poll, catch up with Scott and Karrie


Action Items from October 29th meeting 

- jane, add Keith's slide to archive (completed, jane add to archive)
- rebecca, MASDIR change (NA)
- rebecca, join folks from DC to our mailing lists (completed first part, experiment under way, with Alex joining Metadata IG)
- keith, jane draft message; Alex review/send (completed)
- jane, ask Sean + Cristina to give Alex access (jane to check google docs...Alex has access)
- jane, email scott, and CC group; engage folks in use cases; invite them to a next meeting (meeting was held, need to do an update to them, invite them to january meeting)
- Alex continue w/paper leadership + student engagement (completed/ongoing) 
- Keith contact Dublin Conf. organizers to figure out our meetings (in process)
- jane, schedule next meeting (completed, schedule Jan. meeting and invite Scott + Kari)
 
Work
- need to develop use cases
- will help us understand functionalities that would be added
 
Discussion
- for discussion, feature creep wary, balance between functionalities + desires.


From November 25th meeting (http://epad.dataone.org/2013Nov25-RDA-WG-Notes)

 * Brainstorm action items (all)
   * Sean, Jane, Rebecca, Keith help out in send, new survey participation... google doc.
   * Sean/Cristina: 9 news ones, Sean will pull in (Monday)
   * Jane send email to SILS to find new student
   * Rebecca & Jane write up plan for summer intern
   * Karrie. et al, work on Rubric for use cases?/ experience cases
   * ALEX:  Could can help recommend methodical way.. to review (Karrie look at 25, and see)
   * Put 25 of these example cases in google doc., come up w/a plan! 8 pages of 10, node order
     * (Sean): can provide a list of the existing usecases on DCC actually ~60 "cases"
   * Karrie testing, ethnographic interviews with1-2 faculty coming to DCC directory -- does this give them what they needs
   * Scott & Amy Barton-using the directory wksp working closely with Karrie
   * Keith - advertising push at Dublin, consider an approach for interactive participation in DCC.

 * Consider next meeting (all)
   * Week of the 16th. 
   * Jane: Set up Next Meeting with Doodle poll
   * Using Skype
   * More participants? Can adverstise to the whole WG email list
   * Check case statement before next meeting - https://rd-alliance.org/working-groups/metadata-standards-directory-working-group.html

 * Dublin and pre-Dublin planning
 * WG, key think get more people involved, what are some of the positives of what has been done, what are some of the obstacts, could be addresses... 
 * meeting w/MIG and Metadata, making an open meeing...
 * Rebecca, what platform could be used... 
 * Sean outline 3 possibilities... a paragraph on each idea.  Long term platform.

