Development Block 5.1
=====================

Release CCI 1.2.2, excluding ORE parsing changes. Determine if Dryad profiles will be supported in this release.

Roger
 * 20130906
   * working with CJ at KU for stage testing
     * don't think they have test certificates
   * new Pasta node, ready for staging
     * should we use the same nodeID or a new one?
     * from earlier conversation, best to keep the same node ID, conceptually the same node
     * all existing content will be archived, the node goes down, then comes up with new content.
     * the archived content will be available only at replication sites.
     * should the new content be seen as updates of the old ones? 
     * need to update the replica information on the system metadata. 
     * Dave, Roger, Matt, and Mark to discuss
   * looking into making a windows installer for CLI
     * usually needs different installers for python versions and 32/64bit
     * C-extension support for some libs needed 
   * tickets for Mac installs
 * 20130904
   * updating python dependencies to use fixed versions, instead of latest.
   * will reach out to:
     * KU
     * pasta (LTER GMN) status
       * info: rework of how they expose their content.  Deprecate old representations.
   * mn.update behavior - should we move to have only one way to do obsoletes instead of two ways?

Rob
 * 20130904
   * more documentation progress
   * https://drive.google.com/a/epscor.unm.edu/folderview?id=0B7KFBjH3OAo_U0NXZUtNZHhUTjg&usp=sharing#
 * 20130830
   * MN documentation with Laura
     * Scoping projects: need a project page for GMN
   * NodeRegistry work: backburner, but will get to this next week
 * 20130828
   * drafted high-level MN onboarding document to be put on www.dataone.org > participate > Member Node
     * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YVEyFrqZPclr_tzhLtzYdW8tdu-fVeVQ-8yeHYhH9xc/edit?usp=sharing
     * will either hand off to Chris Allen to put on the site, or do it myself (already using DataONE color palette)
     * will align mid-level MN onboarding process diagram with it, in terms of phase and step names.
   * Following up with EDAC
     * will omit links back to services in sci meta docs
 * 20130826
   * Working with Laura on MN checklist documentation
     * What's the entrance condition into the "Testing" phase is
     * Registering new formats

Skye
 * 20130906
   * for testing the release
     * created java libclient tool for transfering packages into sandbox env
     * trouble with eml submissions in mn-sandbox-ucsb-1
   * 

 * 20130904
   * blockers:
     * on Hudson, poms without versions failed?
       * org.apache.org HTTPClient not downloading (missing dependencies)
       * Dave will do some work on Hudson
     * content for SANDBOX testing
       * trying to get Demo1, Demo2 back "into rotation" on SANDBOX
         * these have a good variety of content
       * Robert to help out
   * added solr features to help out with ONEMercury
   * some performance improvements
 * 20130830
   * Release work for 1.2.2
     * 3 1/2 hours to run ansible playbooks
     * Bouncy Castle not present?
     * dataone-cn-solr install allowed openjdk-6 over java-sun-6. Need to resolve this and remove openjdk-6
       * Ansible playbook was incorrect, needs fix.
   * Added dev docs for index processing:
     * http://mule1.dataone.org/OperationDocs/search_index_config.html#index-processor-configuration
 * 20130828
   * having trouble getting builds to complete on hudson
     * downloading jar problem. full disk issue?
     * need someone to look at this - Dave will have a look
   * Public key now on ansible.dataone.org. sudo not working
   * Documentation on d1_indexing
 * 20130826
   * Pushing the 1.2.2 release to stable, will change ORE parsing factory to XPATH for now
     * requires a 1.2.3 release when Merritt catches up
     * Dryad support will be pushed to 1.2.3
   * Author last name sorting

Robert
 * 20130906
   * out yesterday - cold 
   * will work with Skye on packaging stuff
     * YAML - "install = NO" problem.
   * working on issue 3886 - strategy for manipulating solr log query strings for dashboard public access
 * 20130904
   * working on issue 3886 - strategy for manipulating solr log query strings for dashboard public access
 * 20130830
   * Work on UNM CN node issues - need to get it back into the RR
   * #3886 is a priority
   * Ansible: peg packages to a certain level of support
     * Also, upgrading servers. SSH only sends one command per session


Chris B.
 * 20130906
   * same 4 tasks as Wed.
     * some promising results for Ansible
       * Fireball and py-mico(?) give better performance
       * Fireball more work to set up, but faster.
       * Fireball to be replaced by Accelerate, and should reduce the work, but not out yet.
   * 
 * 20130904
   * tasks 3959-62: ansible transport to speed up time and reduce dependencies. 
 * 20130830
   * Ansible: decide which packages need to be pegged
     * Eg: apache - peg this to a specific version
   * Upgrade SSH, or look at other transport
   * Helping David with splunk forwarders
 * 20130828
   * Updated rsyslog on unm and ucsb dev box to forward to orc splunk server
     * dns entries aren't working, only direct IP addresses within the inputs.conf file.
     * using the geotrust intermediate cert, authenticating the server is next.
   * Splunk documentation.
   * Read up on OPeNDAP.
 * 20130826
   * Setup a clean instance of Splunk with DataOne Cert for web, syslog and forwarding.
   * Documented procedures for installation and setup of splunk.
   * Talked to Dave on Friday about setting up remote rsyslog forwarding on a unm or ucsb dev box

David
 * 20130906
   * Splunk:
     * separate forwarder for prod to get around issues
     * trying new configurations to use the new forwarder and test it out.
     * if works, use for other ORC boxes and then remote boxes.
     * 
 * 20130904
   * continued work on splunk.
     * obstacle: SSL certs on forwarders throwing errors.  Wildcard certs aren't working in test environments because only goes down 1 subdomain.
   * meeting with Bruce later today to get a gameplan.  Want to wrap up by Friday.
 * 20130830
   * 90% done with forwarder on sandbox
     * working on SSL certs with Chris
   * continued work on sysadmin docs
 * 20130828
   * Will work on splunk forwarders in sandbox
 * 20130826
   * Not available on Mondays due to class conflict.

Dave
 * 20130906
   * administrative work
 * 20130904
   * administrative work
   * Hudson
   * UNM storage requirements (research storage consortium) - chance to give input to get off NSF2 and using a newer protocol
     * block-level access vs. file access?
   * Agenda for CCIT and AHM meetings.
     * progress to date
     * schedule (and priorities) through July
     * sub-group for MN documentation to review it and nail down the details.
     * dashboard review / input
     * search index direction, enhancements
     * API changes
       * series ids
       * sysmeta control to MNs
       * slender nodes
 * 20130904
   * Administrative work
   * Prep for CCIT, AHM meetings
   * Hudson appears to be working now
 * 20130830
   * dealing with Hudson and Jenkins
 * 20130828
   * working through cleaing up the release process (releases.dataone.org)
   * proposal writing
   * getting back to onedrive development
 * 20130826
   * Travel

Matt
 * 20130830
   * 

Ben
 * 20130906
   * Sem-Tools grant work, so will be not doing D1 
   * working on a Morpho release
   * will be helping a few of the MNs already working with.
 * 20130830
   * continued work on the d1_dashboard
   * working with USANPN
 * 20130828
   * Continued work on the d1_dashboard
     * restructuring to pull information from multiple sources
     * 
 * 20130826
   * working on the d1_dashboard
     * D3 visualizations work

Chris
 * 20130911
   * Continued work on the data distribution map / heatmap display
     * working on a server-side script to produce a JSON output for heatmapjs
   * Story development for milestones
 * 20130903
   * Working on a plan for indexing N/S/E/W bounding box centers as geohashes in the Solr index
     * will coordinate with Chris B.
     * will provide data for the dashboard map display (heatmap)
   * Working with Lee Marsh on USANPN registration in stage
   * Troubleshooting MN registration in sandbox with Skye
 * 20130830
   * NKN, NPN certs
   * Dashboard heatmap work
   * Meetings: NKN
 * 20130826
   * Working on dashboard implementation
     * currently working out some dependency issues for external libraries
     * working on mapping ui + heat map
     * Focusing on D3 for graphing summaries, etc.
   * 

Jing
 * 20130906
   * subject management for Morpho
     * transitioning from LDAP identification to CILogon
     * impacts a lot of the Metacat Member Nodes 
     * as a DataONE ITK
   * "subject mapping" will be responsibility of the individual Member Nodes

MN.update behavior
------------------
"previous pid" provided in the parameters and also sysmeta of new object.
 - Client controls those fields in the system metadata
 - Member Node should ensure accuracy of inputs.
 - assume that we have to keep the method signature the same.
 - changing behavior would likely break released libclients
 
Reference API Documentation: it would be better to make explicit how it needs to be specified.
 - clarifying the docs


Kaisen meetings
---------------
    - what purpose is epad sprints serving?
    - would redmine be a better place for recording things?
Release planning


