Notes for Standup, 2013-16-Block-2-4
====================================


Chris B.
--------
 * 20130426
   * Laptop upgrade troubles
   * Planning on Ansible demo for Monday
 * 20130424
   * Ansible is now reading the config template file
     * working on user input now
   * Ansible walk through on Monday
 * 20130422
   * debian package work for Ansible-based packaging
     * handling test cases
     * shooting for finishing up this week
   * Coordinate with Roger at UT next week
 * 20130419
   * Progress on the Ansible modules
     * writing deb-conf - interacts with debconf backend
     * writing 'sitefacts' module
       * Uses the XML config file to build a list of the variables for the environment that module is run in (configuration info)
     * plan to finish this up next
 * 20130417
   * Working on XML Schema for configuration under Ansible
 * 20130415
   * Meeting with Robert: Ansible
     * agreed on XML schema for configuring CNs
     * values from debconf
     * user input
     * template values, etc.
     * modifying the debconf

Rob
---
 * 20130426
   * Finished up libclient ORE validation work (according to new documentation on this)
   * Working with RDFS reasoners in lib_client_java - inverse relationship inferencing
 * 20130424
   * Working on loose end tickets in Block 2 wrt mutability, d1-client, etc
   * Worked on resource map validation in d1_client_java
     * fails on problems, needs to report better
     * use a straight exception
     * Dave: aggregation ID can be resource map URI + a fragment
     * Dave and Matt will review the DataPackage documentation
 * 20130419
   * Working on isDescribedBy relationship in ORE documents, and how it's used
   * working on integration tests for checking resource map construction
   * Will add in story on validating recource maps on the CN  (https://redmine.dataone.org/issues/3720)
     * require both sides of inverse relationships as a D1 requirement, to be loosened later
     * make it super simple to produce these maps by putting in libclient java and python
     * create a service that uses RDFS reasoners to get the triples
       * is there a way to limit all the triples that it processes?  we only want describes, documents and their inverses, at least for indexing
       * memory issues related to large models
       * have the indexer make use of the library for obtaining the triples it needs to populate appropriate fields.
 * 20130417
   * Committed documentation for resource maps
     * needs review:
     * http://mule1.dataone.org/ArchitectureDocs-current/design/DataPackage.html
   * resource map parsing
     * worked with Roger on python parsing of EDAC 
     * In Java: ResourceMap is a foresite object, we may not want others to have to code against foresite
   * Meeting at UNM:
     * content mutability discussion
     * EDAC: content metdata + data into a zip file, and add another science metadata object
     * Brings up package delivery issues: use BagIt instead?
     * Implement services to get and load BagIt packages via the DataONE API
 * 20130415
   * Working on bug for system metadata without a submitter subject
     * CN tester submits without a contact (submitter)
     * Metacat should be checking this value (CN.create handler)
     * Needs to throw InvalidSystemMetadata
     * create cn.create() integration test that pulls the metadata to make sure everything is OK.
   * Working with EDAC on tests
     * looking at their serialized resource maps
     * failing to deserialize with the Java ResourceMapFactory
     * should we throw an exception if we get a null map?
       * yes
     * How does the foresite python library handle this?
       * have not cross-compared java and python libraries wrt serialization/deserialization
Roger
-----
 * 20130426
   * time off
   * Set up back up system locally
   * ONEDrive Ticket: 3640 is done - couldn't reproduce it
     * artifact of a decision on setting up filters, jumping directly to editing
   * Found another bug: ONEDrive discrepancies between the index and what is available locally (getting access denied)
     * ONEDrive should handle this
     * The index shouldn't be showing these pids anyway (Skye will look)
   * Mockup screenshots for the U/A meeting
     * met yesterday with Dave, Robert, others going to the meeting
 * 20130422
   * Added in libclient examples for Solr queries
   * More mockups for ONEDrive
     * zip file objects
     * each object could be exposed as multiple formats
     * plugin-based transformations
     * meeting tomorrow
   * Working on backlog of tickets
 * 20130419
   * Added ore parsing example for Rob
     * parsing of example from Rob worked in python
   * Added another ONEDrive mockup
     * really need the 'displayName' attribute to make files look right
 * 20130417
   * Worked with Rob on ORE maps
     * Rob will try to parse via Java, need to do vice versa with python
   * Worked on Mockups
     * added two more - geographical area - by country or by lat/lon - needs UI work for degrees minutes seconds
     * writing up an overview of the mockups
     * call with Mike Frame next week on usability meeting
 * 20130415
   * ONEDrive mockups demo on Friday
   * Looked through mutability document: meeting?


Matt
----
 * 20130426
 * 20130424
 * 20130422
 * 20130419
   * Worked on MN checklist
 * 20130417
 * 20130415 
   * Need to ccordinate with SEAD folks

Skye
----
 * 20130426
   * Audit reporting work + unit testing
   * Fixed the issue Matt reported re: CN host names
 * 20130424
   * Tracked down UTF-8 issues in ONEMercury
     * Search and facet encodings had to be fixed to not use ISO 8859-1
     * Will get this into the buildout
   * Met with chris and Ranjeet for DAAC and USGS issues
     * application/octet-stream
     * will change format ids on the CNs
     * removed content: Ranjeet will archive those
     * USGS problems too - will update archived flag for old objects too
     * Synchronization report would be helpful
   * Replication auditing now
 * 20130422
   * ORNL DAAC resource maps issue
     * can't confirm 1029 - MN has 1011
     * mistyped resource maps, then fixed them?
   * Chris will look into the Dave/Ranjeet email thread
   * ONEMercury encodings
     * EML XSLT views had ISO 8859-1 encoding declarations
     * fixed these
   * Will be at tech conference on Lucene in San Diego all next week
 * 20130419
   * Worked on UTF-8 encoding in ONEMercury
     * tried this in dev, set the Tomcat Connector encoding attribute
   * Looked at how the maven shade plugin works
     * index task processing and task generator daemons, no longer being put into maven
     * done in the buildout
   * Need a bit of help on the missing objects on the CNstated in the object path map
   * Back into auditing - XML output for the reports, with XSLT
 * 20130417
   * Re-indexed objects in stage
   * Working through ONEMercury UTF-8 support
     * Tomcat connector isn't config'd to UTF-8: need to change this in cn-buildout
   * Production index counts:
     * Some documents not getting copied to UNM (200 ish objects)
     * some pids don't have the object path in hzObjectPath map (40ish pids in UCSB and ORC)
   * Worked with Jing on indexing jar - made changes to POM for dependency-free jar
     * create separate jars: one for shaded daemon jar, one for a jar without the shaded dependencies
 * 20130415
   * SEAD: bug fixes would need to go into production if we move SEAD there
   * Working on Auditing reporting
   * Updated ReplicationManager to use not only authMN copies of replicas a source

Ben
---
 * 20130426
   * Metacat work
   * SANPARKS discussion with Judith Kruger - more content in their MN
 * 20120424
   * Will upgrade the KNB this evening - 2.0.6
     * Dealing with backups
     * Will be able to turn on log aggregation (fixed OOM)
   * Upgraded the SANPARKS node
   * PISCO is at 2.0.5
 * 20130422
   * Worked on notes since Friday for relationship handlings and RDF reasoners
 * 20130422
   * Testing and tagging Metacat 2.0.6
   * Will fix hudson config
 * 20130419
   * restart of UCSB in production. postgres connection pool issue, portal was failing
     * need to look into connection pool leaks
   * Working with TFRI MN - ensuring CNs handle UTF8 character set
     * need to look at ORE maps
 * 20130417
   * Semantics meeting
   * /portal vs /portal/ - do both work?
 * 20130415
   * TFRI is sync'ing in stage
     * indexing may be out of sync
     * Display of chinese characters needs work
     * Title should have a translated version?

Robert
------
 * 20130426
   * Time off Thursday
   * Testing on Wed with Chris B. wrt CN buildout packages
     * Config files aren't available during the config phase
     * will meet with Chris again
 * 20130424
   * debian package work - user input and overriding issues
 * 20130422
   * Time off Thu/Fri
   * Working on debian packaging
     * testing locally for now
 * 20130417
   * cn-buildout coding for using new XML schema for describing configuration
   * prepping for usability meeting
 * 20130415
   * More meetings on Friday: spoke with Chris B.
     * might have some more changes today
     * multiple flags will indicate the source of a config param's value
   * CNs look to be in sync after TC, slapd restart
     * indexing is off in terms of counts
     * will work with Skye on re-indexing the remaining

Dave
----
 * 20130426
   * redmine ticket review
   * quarterly report
   * travel and meeting preps
   * outlining a number of new use cases related to changing properties on sysmeta
     * need to spec out additional use cases wrt system metadata mutability
     * how does one change the auth MN?, etc.
 * 20130424
   * ORE work - working on a parser using RDFquery
     * many malformed resource maps in the dev environments. Will check into this. ONEShare?
   * Working on dataPackages doc
 * 20130422
   * Traveling
   * Javascript parsing of resource maps
     * will be able to introspect ores in the browser
   * software tools for querying Solr
     * https://repository.dataone.org/software/tools/trunk/example_service_calls/
   * Maintenance of redmine, etc.
     * Adding in sprints through remainder of project
     * need backlog triage
 * 20130417
   * European Union group call - possible interactions
     * http://www.eudat.eu/
   * Writing documentation
     * General architecture introductions
     * tool that encodes Solr query terms
     * Patrice is interested in certain queries
   * CCIT call on Monday

Chris
-----
 * 20130424
   * DAAC/USGS work with Ranjeet and Skye
   * d1noderegister script
   * adding registration info to MN checklist
   * TODO: email Bob Cook re: DAAC
   * Followup: mutability discussion
     * Next steps: work on detailed impl (API calls, handling sids, etc)
 * 20130419
   * TODO: ticket for postgresql connection pool issues
   * SEAD: new object formats in Stage, working with Kavitha on rightsHolder entries
   * Metacat replication troubleshooting
   * Meetings with Matt, Jing on Metacat
   * Meeting with LTER sensors group
 * 20130417
   * Rob: generated the EDAC test cert, access set to sscott, rnahf
     * https://dev-testing.dataone.org/edac/
   * Working on Metacat locally - blocked by some configuration issues
     * need some time with Ben for some configuration troubleshooting - after standup?
   * SEAD: In touch with Kavitha, but not hearing back. Assuming the stage env will be used for screenshots for their NSF review
   * Sensor network best practices writeup work
   * Chris B./ Skye: coordinate on d1_indexing work
   * Mutability discussion email out to Dave - not sure if he's on leave at the moment
   * Robert: okay to add cn-orc-1 back into the RR?
   * Chris B: IP address for splunk.test.dataone.org? In redmine ticket
   * TODO: Ticket for implementing services to get and load BagIt packages via the DataONE API
 * 20130415
   * SEAD update of system metadata
   * Metacat: troubleshooting replication update calls
   * Sensor network workshop writeup
   * TODO: schedule mutability discussion
   * TODO: internationalization discussion (CCIT?): 
   * should DataONE require minimal english metadata fields?

