Notes for 2013.22-Block.3.3 (2013-5-26 to 2013-06-08)
=====================================================

Discussion on SOLR Index:

  http://epad.dataone.org/search-index-notes


GOALS for Block 3 (through 2013-06-22)

See https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AjusEcfJ75HCdEZobUdqMjNJYWtfdUlSbnotdl9RY2c#gid=0

Supporting sysmeta change / update by MN:

1. Identify properties of system metadata that are mutable by member node

2. Define API (internal) for CN to push new values to the object store

3. (later) Implement mechanism for Mn to push sysmeta changes

- simplest approach for now is for CNs to pull changed system metadata, checked changed values, push valid changesto the system metadata store

- Future option is to support MN put(pid, system_metadata)

- Define which member node can update system metadata - should be the authoritative MN


Dave
----
 * 20130603
   * Invalid identifiers need to be dealt with
   * long term schedule outlook
   * docs - getting back up to speed on mutability
 * 20130531
   * Meeting with NSF on big data / metadata
   * Looking at upgrading Redmine, migrating to new VM
   * Drafting a local cache for public metadata (several requests for copies of science metadata from dataone)
 * 20130529
   * out - meeting with NSF


Ben
---
 * 20130607
   * TFRI mn all config'd, pretty much ready for sync in production
   * Kevin Web - tring to insert large doc in Metacat
 * 20130605
   * Getting back on track after time off
   * 
 * 20130503
   * Out today
 * 20130529
   * Out this week

Robert
------

 * 20130607
   * Working with Chris B on Ansible stuff
   * Still some issues with SLAPd not shutting down cleanly. will use sigalarm if necessary to force shutdown
 * 20130605
   * Woking with Chris on Debian / Ansible config 
   * Remaining issue seems to be with LDAP not stopping (slapd stop failure)
   * 
 * 20130603
   * preparing Ansible package for Chris B. Issue with UI request by debian. "Seen" files
   * Reviewing various postinst for packages
 * 20130531
   * Working with Chris with Ansible installations in dev
     * dealing with flag issues - all are not getting set correctly through Ansible after apt-get upgrade
     * dealing with access permissions for ldap.config back to root
     * (like openldap installed = false)
 * 20130529
   * Debugging dataone-cn-os-core installation
     * 'URI=""' string issue with LDAP installation and spin up
   * Successful Ansible test with Chris

Rob
---
 * 20130607
   * Admin stuff
   * Reviewing libclient tickets
   * Working on some javadoc improvements, e.g. combining common and libclient into one referece
 * 20130605
   * working on libclient release for releases.dataone.org
   * might need some minor config changes on hudson
 * 20130603
   * Working with Chris B. on resource map factory / index_processor redesign
   * Added some more docs / javadocs
 * 20130531
   * Worked on large resources proposal
     * sent out email, looking for feedback
   * Worked on d1_auditing to filter on formatType
   * Will be in touch with Ryan
     * Waiting for them to register contact subjects into the dev env
 * 20130529
   * Revising large data package document
     * Will be sending out an email to developers@dataone.org


Chris B.
--------
 * 20130605
   * Implementation of ORE resource maps
   * Meet with skye for the javabean hookups
   * Ansible testing. Still some failures
 * 20130603
   * Meet with Rob and discussed his implementation of the ResourceMapFactory
   * Continuing to work on the ResourceMap implementation, currently waiting on Rob to get back with me /etc/dataone/node.properties
   * Testing ansible on new package provided by Robert
 * 20130531
   * Worked with David on ORC node
   * Robert and Chris started Ansible upgrade in dev
     * flags are getting reset, looking into it
     * initial installation works fine, but upgrades are problematic
   * Working on the ORE maps in indexing
     * using a separate branch
     * using an interface to translate to ResourceMapFactory
 * 20130529
   * Worked with Robert on dataone-cn-os-core installation through Ansible
     * not seeing the 'seen' flag. Fixed.
   * Met with Skye on indexer work WRT using ORE parsing
     * working on a test harness, will work with Rob
   * Will meet with David this week, getting his laptop going

Skye
----
 * 20130607
   * Moving forward with dding attribute search support in index
   * Installers for jetty / solr 4
   * messing around with solr cloud config etc
 * 20130605
   * ONEDrive discussion with Roger. Will be continuing issues with last name (author)
   * working on installers for jetty, tomcat, log installer
   * 
 * 20130603
   * Out last week.
   * Need more discussion on adding search properties to index
   * SOLR 4 installer for debian - for logging auditing, processing, etc
   * 
 * 20130529


Roger
-----
 * 20130607
   * Continuing work on onedrive
   * Updating unit tests, getting back to test driven development mode
 * 20130605
   * redid config for onedrive
   * works now with default, can override defaults to change behavior
   * adding some docs
   * looked at index with Skye to compare current state with mockups done by Matt
   * fixes: autodetect decade, last name for author - able to sort by last name in author hierarchy
 * 20130603
   * Initial version of onedrive checked in
   * Working on the SOLR index design to support controlled hierarchy
   * Chris B will verify operation on Mac and Linux
 * 20130531
   * Shawn Bowers requested a large download of D1 public data
     * Wrote a script for this, worked out some of the exception handling
   * Finished up controlled hierarchy in ONEDrive
     * Still can be refined as the indices
     * Still using the pid for display, need to address this
     * Slicing needs to be available for objects (like get(pid, start, end))
       * causes a performance issue with big files
     * Will check ONEDrive in today, doing some cleanup
 * 20130529
   * Working on bugs in ONEDrive taxonomic hierarchy with Solr queries


David
-----
 * 20130607
   * OIT/Bruce/Chris B./me meeting yesterday: discussed improving coordination between D1 and UTK OIT (coordinating patches, upgrades, downtimes, etc).  Bruce is looking into new equipment purchases for near future.
   * This weekend (6/07-6/08), looking at a potential rebuild on our MDSS VM and defrags on ORC storage devices
 * 20130605
   * lots of meetings, training with Chris
     * OIT talking about how to move to more standardized equipment
     * patching schedule sync
 * 20130603
   * Work laptop setup all but complete: seeing issues w/wireless disconnection that persist through driver upgrades.  Temporary, non-critical, erratic, so not going to devote a ton of time to it (maybe will work on it during other work)
   * Finishing up documentation on VM creation at UTK
     * needs reStructured markups
   * Working with Chris on VM management/ disk management
     * Couple of fragmented partitions from old VMs: defrag should take care of them, but need to determine good feasible timeframe for defrag and look into potential complications
     * One old VM still in infrastructure: leaving in place temporarily to use as a walkthrough box to document deletion procedure (not using critical resources)
   * Will continue with documentation
 * 20130531
   * (see 20130603 above: edited w/updates)
 * 20130529


Matt
----
 * 20130605
   * support stuff
 * 20130603
   * Working 
 * 20130531
   * Talking with Gastil re: LTREB site data storage in KNB or new MN
     * Lab/investigator oriented


Chris
-----
 * 
 * 20130531
   * Working with David Dias on the PPBIO future node
     * Matt, Dave : please ping John Cobb and Laura Moyers on this
     * Metacat replication has changed to use client certs to fix a security hole
     * working on getting the configuration correct with David
   * Testing  PISCO Matlab code
   * Metacat-specific work
   * Need to create a second LTER nodeid: LTER-PASTA, LTER_PASTA, LTERPASTA?
 * 20130529
   * LTER Metacat upgrade to 2.0.7
   * Matlab work with Mike @ PISCO
   * Metacat specific work

