Attendees:Rebecca, Bruce, Bob, John K, Amber, Mike, Bill,Trisha,Deborah, Bertram,John Cobb


Regrets: Carol, Suzie, Dave, Matt, Todd

DataONE LT Call:  9am AK/10am PT/11am MT/noon CT/1pm ET

We will also use the epad: http://epad.dataone.org/2013Nov08-LT-VTC 
 
1.  Please join my meeting, Nov 8, 2013 at 11:00 AM MDT.
https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/179613217

2.  Use your microphone and speakers (VoIP) - a headset is recommended. Or, call in using your telephone.

Dial  1 (213) 493-0605
Access Code: 179-613-217
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 179-613-217

GoToMeeting®
Online Meetings Made Easy®

Not at your computer? Click the link to join this meeting from your iPhone®, iPad® or Android® device via the GoToMeeting app.

Agenda for 2013-11-08

1.  CCIT Update (Dave) - skip until next call
2.  CEE Update (Amber) - skip until next call

3.  Renewal status and action items (Bill)

Another set of questions (here and in the google docs folder) Due date: November 21
Contact Rebecca for notes from this meeting
 

4.  Around the Room
          
Rebecca - WOrking on Quarterly report - send updates


Bertram: Rebecca -- do you need sth from the ProvWG or do you have that already?
Revising the answers to Q8. 
Last week: attended TDWG in Florence. Involved in presentations on "curation workflows" and "logic-based taxonomy integration". Nice crowd. Met John and Dave.
Saw Galileo's finger!!! (bone + skin ..)

Amber: CE can wait until next week.  AGU reduced registration ends today.  Newsletter time is here agin (sorry) so I'll start bugging people after this next week of writing.  If you have an idea already, let me know.  New MN announcements going out next week.

Bruce -- working on questions.  USA-NPN [ahead of schedule no ?--nope was scheduled for 10/31] and SEAD are officially operational Member Nodes.  Good meeting today with ORNL data sciences folks about needs relating to possible future ORNL-based additional member nodes.  Working with a couple of grad students on the ongoing Splunk deployment to better monitor DataONE infrastructure.  I have a proposal from UTK OIT about equipment to spend the next round of equipment funding.  A key issue is making it easier for DataONE infrastructure to be easily managed by OIT.  The IDCC workshop proposal was accepted, and I'll turn to planning on that in the next few weeks.  And I spent way too much time dealing with the Microsoft TIFF 0-day this week :-(.  

Mike/Viv - Working on Open Data requirements for Catalog, etc. for pending release of a USGS Science Data Catalog due November 22nd per OSTP/OMB requirements. As part of this effort will be also looking at increasing content to the CSAS MN as part of this broader USGS effort. [Have to run to another call starting in 5 minutes]......

John K: presented SeaIce at TDWG with good responses; good discussions there about ids

Deborah:
Presentations went very well at Intl Sem Web Conference and also at TDWG
there was a mention of reports from all hands - can we get those - our working group might want to review working groups with overlap like provenance and metadata

Viv: Releasing the final Data Management Video Modules project on the USGS Data Management website next week - great contributions from DataONE folks on the group - will send the link to the project outputs next week!  :)

Bob:  With Bruce Wilson, planning a version 2 of the MN software stack, to enable other ORNL Data Centers to join.  Effort is based on a relaxed requirements being pushed to data centers. 

