D1MWG Meeting Agenda and Notes
Attending: John, Jane, Greg, Nassib, Angela, Karthik
Regrets: Viv, Sarah,

1. recap of outcomes from AHM
    (also possible CrossRef help)
       ** ? ask Geoff Bilder or other CrossRef rep to join the group
       ** ? let Stephen Richard join (btw)  -- or let him join email list w.o. joining the group?
               *  set up a discussion list  separate from WG list for PPSR folks, students, etc?

2. recap of outcomes TDWG (caught up with Rob Guralnick, Tim Robertson)
       to do: post slides

3. voting on the name.  (jane's view... folks, SeaIce is sticking... i'm not kidding!)
       John:  explore short names: YAMS, M4S, M4T, ... what about others

4. updates/status reporting 
- FAQs (Greg, John, all)
- About page (John, others... status)
- Deploying to heroku:   Thanks, Nassib!
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/git
      AWS? scale up and scale back eg, during demos
      !    Karthik: will look into ballpark prices
- Development Priorities:
    ** Greg: how to populate it to start with?  Need it to have more gravity before rollout.
            John:  work with PPSR people to get relatively jargon-free terms in?
    !       John:  Dublin Core to start with also?
    ** Nassib: how can the system work if we're doing nothing with reputation?
     !  Nassib: I will work on this
    ** Karthik:  good to have an API at least for search, ranked
    ** John: way to view cluster of terms with, eg, for PPSR
- Ranking Algorithm (Nassib)
- ! Comparison matrix (Angela)
- DLF (John/jane)
- PPSR - (jane)
  ! Jane to summarize for our group
- Provenance, Semantics, any follow up (John?)

5. New ideas
- Liasoning w/another metadata community (**Viv, perhaps a place for you to jump in?)
- Action items to continue work - (Greg's point about progress when we worked independently and in smaller groups)
- other ideas

6. outstanding business

7. Around the room

