Attendees: Rebecca, John Cobb, Mike, Viv, Bill, Amber, Trisha, Bertram, Deborah

Maybe: Bruce
Regrets: John K., Suzie, Bob, Carol (joined at 1:20)

9am AK/10am PST/11am MST/noon CST/1pm EST

We will also use the epad: http://epad.dataone.org/2014Mar21-LT-VTC 

1.  Please join my meeting, Mar 21, 2014 at 11:00 AM MDT.
https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/294994120

2.  Use your microphone and speakers (VoIP) - a headset is recommended. Or, call in using your telephone.

Dial  1 (619) 550-0008
Access Code: 294-994-120
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 294-994-120



Agenda 21 March 2014
 * CI Status (Vieglais)

- CNs upgraded to latest version of Metacat plus some other minor bug fixes
- CN sync issues being tested, expecting a full run to be made next week.

Expecting to d a full run of the CN synchronization next week but don't know how long it will take.

After the update to the CN update today there was a brief period (~1/2 hour) when new content was not available because the CNs weren't in sync.  Everything is running fine now on one CN.

Skye hopes to get to dashboard next week.

 * CE Status (Budden)

Internship program applications closed on Tuesday. 33 complete applications.  Incomplete applications were made available to the mentors to widen the pool for some projects. Reviews need to be back from mentors next week.
Amber is also working on the newsletter.  She'll be at the RDAP meeting next week in San Diego.

Save the Date for the DUG will go out next week.


 * Updates (Michener)

Bill, Dave, and Amber are going to meet with Bob Chadduck and Irene Lombardo on April 28-29.

No official response on the


 * Around the Room
Rebecca: AHM registration will be available this week and notice will be sent out to team.

Matt: Haberman DIBBs proposal proceeding apace, DataONE involvement in metadata harvest from participating nodes, and one focus for our group would be working on metadata quality/completeness across multiple metadata content standards.  Matt, Dave, Giri, Bob involved in discussions on this. Mike - Hey if you want anything from us in USGS, let myself or Viv know - we are using some of this for metadata compelteness in our Open Data Catalogs and Quality of course is a huge issue to us in making available government data...  Even if you guys just want a letter of support or collaboraiton - just let me know. Thanks.  We are focusing around several communities of practice for different communities, and it might make sense to include USGS as one of those.  yea, tie some of this to Government Open Data - will get some support for sure...  
Deborah will wait for Matt to follow up in case it is useful to have a semantics connection

Mike: UT Training in the Message effects lab is next thursday on including sensors to measure heart rate variability and other biometrics when performing UA tests. 

Deborah:  Reviewing internships.  Updating use case with Margaret and Xixi, Looking for overlap with the Jefferson project overlap.  Also before our next meeting, we are determining if there is a good call for a subgroup of the working group to submit to to get some continued funding for work that overlaps with DataONE and working group member interests

Call
Send SMS
Add to Skype
You'll need Skype CreditFree via Skype

Trisha: nothing to add... off to RDA and DataCite meeting in Dublin tomorrow. 

