Member Node Wranglers 
    Fridays at 10:00 am AK
                    11:00 AM PDT
                    12:00 MDT
                    1:00pm CDT
                    2:00pm EDT) 

https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/430697153

3 January 2014

Attending: Laura, John, Amber, Rebecca, Dave, Bruce

Regrets:  Matt, Mike


Agenda: 

        1. High profile issues (or current items of interest)
        
        Dashboard meeting 12/18/13 - reviewed changes based on suggestions at AHM made to date, clarified what some values are, etc.  
        epad from the meeting is http://epad.dataone.org/2013Dec18-Dashboard  
        Tentative plan is to push out the simple dashboard mid-January and then add map functionality prior to NSF review end of February.
        
        CN synch issue - Per Dave 12/20/13:  A solution has been identified, it is being implemented, but is not yet complete. Expect resolution next week.


        New MNs announcements? -  holding off until after CN issues resolved; SEAD has been announced:  http://www.dataone.org/news/sead-virtual-archive-joins-dataone-member-node; holding off on NPN, KU, GOA (need MN official approval)
        Status of news release text: NPN complete.  Nothing for KU (DD missing?) and GOA has outline (DD status?)

        IDCC workshop 2/27/14? -  workshop announced http://www.dataone.org/news/register-now-dataone-mn-implementation-workshop  
            previous workshop execution included info on ITK, this will be touched upon in the new workshop but will have more information re: actual MN implementation
            Bruce to set up collaboration area for us to work together on this.  Dropbox.  Use Rebecca's gmail account, and Laura (lmoyers1@gmail.com) and Amber's unm (aebudden@dataone.unm.edu), Dave dropbox: vieglais@ku.edu  BEW: DONE
            
        Dryad ready to come online after CN synch.  Would be nice for Dryad to advertise coming online via social media (twitter, etc.).
     
        2. Status of MNs
     * Y5Q2
       * Gulf  of Alaska DP (3531) - The GoA PIs et al. met before Thanksgiving, which  is what we were waiting for before we could announce. Need info from Matt.
         * Matt: Just need to write the press release; node is fully synced in production - question: have PIs said "yes"? 
       * FRIM  (4083) - Jing Tao D1 contact, Omar Ali is tech MN POC, currently  installing latest version of Metacat, Jing sent an email to Omar.  I  haven't seen a reply yet.  Laura to ask Jing if he's heard from Omar, etc.
       * LTER-Europe (3232) - 
         * Matt: No movement. I emailed them today (12/20/13).
       * Dryad (3118) - 
         * Per Ryan 12/20/13:  we have been slowly fixing bugs as they are identified by the developer team. We fixed the last known bug about a week ago, but the developers had some high-priority issues come up, so they havenâ€™t been able to re-test for us yet.
         * 12/31/13 - 1/1/14: Ryan says he will register the prod node on Monday (1/6/14) to try to get Dryad's MN officially online before mid-January (see email from Matt 12/31/13)
         *  Should be ready to bring online after synch resolves.
       * EDAC (3221) - just a few more tickets to address; Rob and Soren working these. How many tickets are getting resolved? They may be waiting on synch resolution and may be "really, really, close"  Laura to check with Rob and see how close they are to going live (waiting CN).
       * Kansas (3188) - as of 12/12/13, exceptions are resolved and KUBI is ready to go to production.  Holding off for CN synch issue resolution.
       * U  Illinois Chicago (3213) - 1/2/14: Bob says he and Chris will get together and status.
       * PPBio  (3748) - LLNC server migration is complete. May need support now for  further configuration. Laura emailed Debora 12/31/13.
       * SAEON (3205) -  moving metacat to more permanent server - move to Q3 (Laura)
         * No change in status, no reply to my last email (12/20/13)
       * NKN  (3238) - To resume development after the holidays per Luke.  Luke will be at the IDCC workshop.

     * Y5Q3
       * USGS ScienceBase (4002) - Per Mike Frame, planning a meeting in January to discuss broader issues of how/where this data will fit into the overall USGS DataONE involvement.  There have been other discussions where we touched upon whether these (ScienceBase, NWRC, others) will be independent MNs or if their data will be rolled into the CSC.  Nothing resolved as yet.
       * DFC (3532) - Bruce has emailed Lisa - update? RK will email Reagan & Lisa to invite to IDCC workshop today
       * Taiwan TERN (3211) - 
         * Matt: I haven't been in contact with them.  (12/20/13) 

     * Y5Q4
       * EU BON (3964) - Their December meeting has been pushed out to 29-31 January.
       * MPC (3708) - a/o 12/20/13: decided to go with GMN with Dublin Core for metadata; they think they will pursue OAI-PMH in the future for other purposes.  All DC terms are contained in EML, Dave recommends create simple EML documents, so D1 doesn't have to do anything special to use; allows richer metadata if they choose.  Wendy in conversation with Chris et al. re: DC.

     * Future
       * Australia: Bruce and Laura working to catch up with Allison (telecon next week).  Face to face with Bill on 15-17 January.  Need to make sure he's prepped for that.
       * CitSci -- Nicole Kaplan (Colorado State University) planning to attend IDCC workshop.  ACTION: Bruce to follow up and make sure she's actually registered.  
       * Multiple ORNL potentials, depending on technical, communications, and social issues to be resolved.
       * Center for Open Science (VA) Andrew Sallans- more info after call next week

     * Question:  how many MNs could we potentially have by 31 July?  30 is a reasonable estimate.  The potential exists for more MNs to come online if we are able to implement DSpace, slender node, iRODS, or other stacks.

        3. Old action items
        
        4. Not-high profile issues
         
        5. Around the room
            Rebecca: documentation status?  Laura is working on detailed (below the MN checklist) information.  I'd like to have it done before the IDCC workshop (Laura).  What about operations docs?  Other higher priority issues (like CN synch) have bumped them out.
            Amber: nothing today
            Dave: Hope to have info next week on OPeNDAP and DSpace work.
            Bruce: nothing else
            John: nothing

