Member Node Wranglers 
    Fridays at 10:00 am AK
                    11:00 AM PDT
                    12:00 MDT
                    1:00pm CDT
                    2:00pm EDT) 

https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/430697153

15 November 2013  

Attending:  Laura, John, Rebecca, Amber, Bruce, Dave

Regrets:   Matt


Agenda: 
        1. High profile issues (or current items of interest)
        
        OPeNDAP and DSpace contracts - Waiting on Dave for input; consider if we can include Slender Node in  this activity (Dave says "possibly", to discuss with Rebecca offline).  Dave is waiting on feedback from DSpace and OPeNDAP folks.

        Slender Node  - (harvesting metadata from sites or links to data, i.e. a tier 0)  This might be an option for MPC.
        
        Replication policy change - need to discuss when Matt is present; I understand there were some concerns??  Potentially significant change; current default is to NOT replicate.  Option is to do something if replication policy is not stated - such as ensure at least to replicas.  We need to get with people affected (MNs) to see what they think is an appropriate default (to replicate, or not to replicate).  
        
        Other replication issues: ESA for example has tier 4 capability but is not currently operating as a replication node.  ESA has replication "s/w" but the flag that says I can take replication is currently false.
        
        Also look at the flag that says (something like) I  can take/give replication - what does that really mean - need Matt/Dave
        
         https://cn.dataone.org/cn/v1/node/

        
        Barriers to MN implementation discussion?  There are technical issues  (like "need DSpace" as a blocker for UTK, etc.), documentation issues  (certificates, etc.), policy issues at the MN, and other blockers.  Something to discuss here and/or in LT.
 * technical issues
   * iRODS 
   * DSpace
   * ensure MNs have appropriate versions of supporting software (metacat, etc.)  Metacat developers need to know what DataONE users (MNs) need and facilitate communication between Metacat devs and MNs.  Newsfeed: communicate when there are new versions, etc. - at least two communications channels, going both ways
       * We have operations/operators list where we indicate when things are up/down
       * Challenging to determine which people belong in which groups - need a better mechanism to manage.  Amber has looked at Mailman.
 * business cases - the way people do business doesn't match up with DataONE design (i.e. immutability)
 * documentation    
   * certificates (what they are, how to make them, etc.)
   * operations issue(s) - where is the operations documentation, need to have a good landing page for ops docs (like for MNs)  See http://mule1.dataone.org/OperationDocs/.  There are other bits of operations documentation that aren't here (aren't rendering properly).  This is something that Dave wants to work on in the next several weeks.  This will become even more important as we have more MNs coming along.  
   * could we apply some effort to this specific documentation - preferably someone internal, if we have a big picture of operations information needs, we might be able to farm out bits and pieces to different people for cleanup
                
>>>>  We could use status pages indicating who's up/down (CNs, MNs), any other issues affecting proper operations.  Do we have ongoing system checks that we could be running/viewing to discover if things are working properly?  What about a mailing list notification when things are up/down?  
>>>>  We need to decide how we want to communicate what kinds of information and design appropriately.  
>>>>  Needs to come from us (DataONE).

As an example, how did UCSB let people know when they were going to be moving?  operators and coredev lists; developers list is broader; ccit almost but not quite identical to coredev
?? are MN operators on the operators list?  

>>>>  Add to MN checklist:  who should be added to various distribution lists (operators, etc.)
(Laura: verify who is currently on list, find out who needs to be added)

An example news list from XSEE including ability to sift news items by site and resource https://www.xsede.org/news

Also at https://portal.xsede.org/group/xup/resource-monitor is a live view of resource status and backlog. DataONE might want to use this as a template of how to resent inform to user and/or MN operators. If you give me access, I can share what this looks like over GoToMeeting

>>>> Need an operations checklist, including notification out to the field when there are changes

        IDCC MN workshop - MOVED to Thursday, 27 Feb 2014; when does registration open? Monday 25 November.  They need to know by Wednesday proposed room layout and how costs will be covered.  invitees identified?  Bruce needs a list: Hannu, Lisa from RENCI, Mike Huhns, someone from NKN maybe, let Mike Frame know, Greg Newman (citsci.org), let MPC know, let Australia and Brazil know.  Bruce to send workshop info to Rebecca to send out to folks.
         
        Redmine backlog - those who contacted us -   I'm contacting the originators of the requests.
                
        Issues with test environment (webtester) - Is there a redmine ticket to address maintenance on the webtester?  Need Dave for this one maybe.(maybe outsource?)
                
        Documentation
            MN landing page - good to go for now
            Details under landing page - Laura/Rob working on previously
            MN dashboard  - want to share with members of the MN Forum, need to have Chris present; need to clean it up re: comments/suggestions from AHM and get  go-ahead from LT before sharing.  Especially need to clean up the data  (doesn't change before your eyes)

        Immutability -  plan to prototype the series ID approach prior to RSV in February - need Dave
        
        CN synch issue - current status?

        2. Status of MNs
     * Y5Q2
       * holding off on announcing NPN (and SEAD) until the CN issues are resolved

       * EDAC (3221) - getting there, email out to Rob inquiring
       * Kansas (3188) - email out to CJ

       * Gulf of Alaska DP (3531) -  The GoA PIs et al. met this week, which is what we were waiting for before we could announce. Matt will give us an update next week.
       * FRIM (4083) - Jing  Tao D1 contact, Omar Ali is tech MN POC, currently installing latest  version of Metacat, Bruce to confirm status of this install
       * LTER-Europe (3232) - Laura to check with Matt next week.
       * Dryad (3118) - From last week:  Todd Vision said the metadata issues have been resolved and he has  requested a timeline from Ryan - I'll share with team when I get it (RK)  
         * From 11/14/13 MNF, Ryan said there are two issues, one of which should be resolved by code that he was to review Thurs afternoon, and another related to the fact that data in their development system isn't clean (i.e. may be incomplete, 
       * U Illinois Chicago (3213) - Bob says "We still have to finish up installing the prerequisites for Metacat (Java). The cert is installed and functional. I'll be in touch with Chris to schedule our next install session."
       * PPBio (3748) - Matt said last week: LLNC server migration is complete. May need support now for further configuration. Laura to be in touch with Debora.
       * SAEON (3205) -  moving metacat to more permanent server - Laura/Matt? to check in
       * NKN (3238) - Luke says "we are on track here in Idaho with our attempts to stand up the MN stack.  We've been sidetracked with other priorities, but are committed to continuing forward."

     * Y5Q3
       * USGS ScienceBase (4002)
       * DFC (3532) - Bruce has emailed Lisa - update? (also invite to IDCC workshop)
       * Taiwan TERN (3211) - to be discussed at October ILTER meeting - ask Matt next week

     * Y5Q4
       * EU BON (3964) - 
       * MPC (3708) - exposing metadata only at first, considering GMN or OAI-PMH, meeting 11/11/13 and call with Tracy 11/19/13

     * Backlog
       * Contacting those who contacted us first; have already received word back from Movebank (Sarah Davidson) and met yesterday with Mike Huhns from USCarolina; iRODS is blocker for iEcolab and iPlant;  

        3. Old action items
        
        4. Not-high profile issues
         
        5. Around the room
        



