Member Node Wranglers 
    Fridays at 10:00 am AK
                    11:00 AM PDT
                    12:00 MDT
                    1:00pm CDT
                    2:00pm EDT) 

https://www1.gotomeeting.com/join/430697153

4 October 2013

Main goal of this meeting is to go through the MNDeployment redmine tickets, focusing first on those that are targeted for PY5 and then looking at those whose status is "new" and determining if they are good candidates to move up in the queue.

Attendees:  Rebecca, John Cobb, Laura, Bruce, Dave, Rob

Regrets:  

See redmine tickets for Y5Q1-Y5Q4.

Want to consider the backlog, how to move potential MNs from backlog to Q3/Q4.  To consider: we're reaching capacity for CCIT resources to work on MNs, so we need to carefully choose/schedule new MNs for Y5

D1 has some "extra" money, proposal in process to create stack for OPeNDAP (and maybe DSpace) to enable us to have more options from the backlog to pull up in the schedule.  Dave/Bruce to get paperwork to Rebecca to enable this effort. 

If we get the immutability issue resolved soon, Bob Cook thinks that there are 5-6 additional MNs from ORNL that could be implemented.  Can potentially put these in Y5Q3.

Documentation issue: duality of what is a MN - is it the organization or the software implementation?  Dave suggests adding a clarifier, such as "MN organization" when it refers to the organization specifically.  
    Rob:  also use of the word "repository" 
    >>> discussion of the "revised" landing page - http://129.24.63.92/member-nodes-revised# - and discussion at CCIT meeting; Rob seemed to be getting conflicting direction re: level/type of information on the landing page
    We want the landing page to be simple and straightforward (fewer words, direct, etc.)
    "Leverage existing infrastructure" - 
    When considering benefits of joining DataONE, a potential MN wants its data to be more discoverable and more usable with less effort.
     - asking Rob for editing of phrasing on landing page and ordering of items, 
     "preservation" (and replication) - a benefit is that D1 provides a reliable resource for preservation/reproduction of data; 
     Does D1 replication have anything to do with an entity's disaster recovery plan?  John thinks no.  But, from a user perspective, there is some disaster recovery value in D1.
     
Consider that the MN landing page will be looked at by many audiences with different perspectives, needs, etc.

-----------------------------------------
Agenda: (if time permits, otherwise hold for next week)
        1. High profile issues (or current items of interest)
        Documentation - Laura shared Rob's mock-up of MN webpage http://129.24.63.92/member-nodes-revised#  in its then-current state with UT DataONE group; everyone liked the new approach, the separation of content by target audience, the use of graphics, etc.
        
        Immutability - Huge topic of conversation at the CCIT meeting last week.
       
        OPeNDAP (Hyrax)  member node:  We think Jing Tao is looking at the level of effort to do  this.  Bruce, Matt, Dave telecon with James Gallagher and Dave Fulker  yesterday (9/26/13):  http://epad.dataone.org/20130919-opendap-mn-implementation  
        - another meeting on 10/3/13, enthusiasm but still lots of questions


Discussion on wording on MN landing page
Bruc's missing items (high priority)
- improved data availability
- wider audience
Rebecca: cvisual confusionm: illustrations on right start on bullet 2 not bullet one

Rob Nahf: clarificaiont CI includes more tha HW.

        Interest in another MN workshop -- ACTION: Bruce to work wtih Dave and Matt to   see if we can schedule one (look for 10-ish people to attend) - to be discussed in LT meeting
        
        2. Status of MNs  - to be updated in redmine during the meeting
     * Y5Q1
       * NKN (3238) 
       * EDAC (3221) - should go to production next week
       * Kansas (3188) - have certs; should be ready to start stage testing 
       * SEAD (3521) - a/o MNF 9/19/13, Kavitha said they plan to move forward to  production with the data/metadata they have at this time. (Chris)
       * NPN (3186) - have certs, need DOIs
       * GULFWATCH:  Matt to send MN desc doc to Laura

     * Y5Q2
       * ILTER-Europe (3232)
       * Dryad (3118) - some data didn't pass validation, email out to Ryan for current status
       * iEcolab (3219) - Ben in conversation with them; 
         * Matt: another metacat instance, running in Spain, have a lot of content,   partner with KNB (replicated their data to KNB already), expressed   interest in becoming MN; if they're willing, it should be   straightforward to implement.  
         * Bruce: do we want to put this on the hotlist?  
       * DFC (3532) - 
         * Dave: Reagan has mentioned more than once that they'd like to be a MN, have already implemented ingest function.  
         * Matt:  has had a conversation with them and have assigned a developer (Lisa  Stillwell) to implement MN, focus on tier 1 at first but looks like  they'd like to be tier 4 eventually.  Jargon and LibClient Java to  create a home grown stack (we think)
       * iPlant (3234) - iRODS  (they are in AZ and TX); hold off on pursuing this until we have some  success w/iRODS (i.e. DFC in test)
       * U Illinois Chicago (3213) - Bruce has emailed with Bob; they plan to talk at CCIT meeting 
       * USGS   Topo Maps (3525) - Per Mike Frame, they should have DOIs by 1    November,  then will need to create system metadata; aiming for end of    December
         * is this really a new MN or a subtask under CSAS? (JWC) Mike said it was a sub-MN at the July Mtg.
       * PPBio (3748) - meeting with the Brazilian contingent next Tuesday
       * Taiwan TERN (3211) - to be discussed at October ILTER meeting
       * SAEON (3205) -  Matt: they're running a metacat node, helped them set it up, Victoria ?? is POC there, interested in perhaps being a part of   ILTER;   haven't talked to them lately; email out for current status (i.e. should Ben or Matt get in contact with Victoria?)

     * Meeting with MPC (Minnesota Population Center) Monday 9/30/13 at 2:30p EDT to talk about implementing MN there. - they want to become a MN; they will put their technical folks in contact with Bruce et al to scope out what's involved time/resource-wise to implement; meet again 1st week of November

     * Potential MNs mentioned in previous meetings
       * EUBON (European Biodiversity Observation Network), see https://redmine.dataone.org/issues/3964  ; Matt will convene a conf call with GBIF, EUBON, DataONE et al to see if they want to be separate MNs or one or... , there has been some email traffic
       * Embrapa's DSpace repository
       * TUDelft (John Cobb spoke with Jeroen Rombouts at RDA Sept 2013





        3. Old action items
         - eBird/AKN
        
        4. Not-high profile issues
         
        5. Around the room


