
Previous epads:
 *  http://epad.dataone.org/2013Nov25-RDA-WG-Notes
 * http://epad.dataone.org/2013Nov25-RDA-WG-Notes
 *  http://epad.dataone.org/2013Dec19-RDA-MDSWG

14 March 2014
Attendees:
Jane, Alex, Rebecca

Alex on IDCC
Went well (fewer questions may be due to lunch)
More work for preparing for the International journal

Jane on Munich
MDSDWG seen as model WG
Discussion on "what is data"
Review of outputs from WG
RDA still a work in progress

○     For RDA 3 Agenda: 
1)     Introduction (10 minutes)
2)     Goals and updates from the WG (10 minutes)[jane]
3)     Demo/review of DCC (10 minutes) [alex]
4)     Demo of current directory and mechanism for input (10 minutes)[rebecca]
5)     Discussion (~ 40 minutes) [keith]
6)     Framing next steps (7 minutes)[jane]
7)     Restate action items (3 minutes) [alex - slide on-the-spot]

let's meet 11:00 AM in hotel lobby on Tues. March 25, we'll review agenda, outstanding issues, and grab some lunch pre-WG/IG meeting. :)  
 
MIG
For RDA3 Agenda:
1)    Introduction and updates from the Co-Chairs (10 minutes)
2)    Relevant related work in other fora Co-Chairs (10 minutes)
3)    Contributions from RDA Members on relevant activities (10 minutes)
4)    Discussion (60 minutes)


15 January 2014
Attendees:
Jane, Alex, Keith, Rebecca joined too

Agenda for 15 January 2014
1.      Revisiting our charge, setting priorities
·        Look at Gantt chart. Where do we want to be by the end of spring, end of summer, end of 2014, etc.
Looked at Gantt chart as group, Alex looked at quite a bit for IDCC paper.
Notice absnece of Use Case (Keith), good discussion of use cases, drawing from Alex's experience, Keith raise quesitons about use by sciences.  Geo., etc., 
Could we document them in a more standardized way?  Metadata multi-functionality, CKAN, DC, etc. 
Karrie, Scott, et., all
*Jane will make a doc. with moths... Rebcca's pushing on infrastructure.
*Alex, think on DCC use cases, write-down if it makes sense, communicate w/Keith
*Follow-up w/Purdue folks a.s.a.p., and let them know we need them.
*NEXt meeting, look at Gannt chart, description, and let's go through them make sure we are all on the same page.

·        Thinking about Dublin, and making the most of our time together (discuss below too)
Keith sharing form AM meeting, w/RDA chair, huge problem/overlap, Keith will keep monitoring.
*on-the-table to brainstorm agenda for Dublin, one of our future mtgs

2.      Communication w/RDA, etc.
·        Web presence
*Anyone should update, and make sure to update 'date updated' 
*Alex's slides will be made available from the IDCC site, and the paper published later in the IJDC journal.
·        Emails (Susanna, etc.)
*all, ponder if this is something to discuss in WG and IG.  Jane's thinking, acknowledge in the WG, but punt to IG.  Keith, outside the current remit of the WG, so discussed in IG, and as future WG activity. We don't want to be derailed.
·        DFT group
*Keith just liase.. with this group. all - share, 
·        other

3.      Sean’s goals, extending the survey
current prototype, link to DCC (as the prototype).  Here it is.
Link to anonymized version of result spreadsheet.  share our data! 
*jane, follow-up w/Cristina 
*Keith, need to connect the directory to the use cases
*Keith, coudl you branstorm a use case or two (interoperability)

4.      Infrastructure
links to item 5, Rebecca, draft summer intern call.
*Keith, get Sean and intern to communicate and work together.  At least have Sean forward ideas.   
5.      DataONE summer intern


6.      Upcoming meetings
·        IDCC
·        Munich *Jane should have good data about our progress.  Jane remind folks in Munich that not at WG started the same.  Reporting milestones, add dates.
·        Dublin

7.      Next meeting core team, w/Karrie and Scott Feb. 11, 11-12:30 EST
*Jane get email out for Feb.Scott/Karrie 
8.      Other? 


